County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
brucecounty.on.ca 
226-909-5515 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval  
Plan of Subdivision 
 
The Council of the Corporation of the County of Bruce hereby issues Draft Approval to 
Following Application:   
File Number  
 
S-2021-002 
For 
 
 
 
Snyder Development Corp Inc. 
In Respect Of  
Part Lots 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50, Lake Range 
Geographic Township of Saugeen 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
 
Date of Draft Approval 
As per the County Decision Sheet 
 
The following conditions have been established by the County of Bruce and must be met prior 
to the granting of Final Approval: 
 
Identification 
1. That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File S-2021-002 for Snyder 
Development Corp Inc. on lands legally known Part Lots 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50, Lake 
Range, Geographic Township of Saugeen, Town of Saugeen Shores, prepared by 
Cobide Engineering Inc. dated December 21, 2020 
 
Lot Layout and Density 
2. That this approval is in accordance with the 'Land Use Schedule’ on the Plan of 
Subdivision, prepared by Cobide Engineering Inc. dated December 21, 2020 
 
 
Servicing, Stormwater Management, Public Roads, Walkways, Streetlighting & Future 
Development. 
 
3. a. Sidewalks shall be installed on one side of the local streets in a location and standard 
approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
b. Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of collector roads in a location and 
standard approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
c. Sidewalks shall be installed external to the Plan of Subdivision, where required by the 
Town. 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 2 of 10 
 
 
d. That the developer install a 3m wide ATR to Town standards along the east side of 
the proposed Acton Drive, connecting to the existing Beiner trail connection south of the 
development to Concession 10. 
 
4. Before any lots, blocks, roads, walkways, trails, service corridors, 0.3 metre reserves, 
identified in this Plan are conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, they shall be free 
and clear of encumbrances. 
 
5. All street and public lighting fixtures shall be dark-sky compliant. 
 
6. The Owner agrees to transfer to the Town the following blocks, free and clear of 
encumbrances: 
 Blocks 51, 52 and 53, if not transferred to the adjacent landowner, to be transferred to 
the Town as open space 
 Block 54 as a potential utility/walkway corridor 
 Blocks 55, 56 and 58 as walkways 
 Block 57, if not to be transferred to the adjacent landowner, to be transferred to the 
Town as open space 
 Blocks 59, 60, 62 and 63 as 0.3 metre reserves 
 Block 61 as a potential sanitary pump station 
 Block 63 as open space 
 
7. The Owner agrees to dedicate the road allowances as shown on the Plan to the Town, 
free and clear of encumbrances, and that the street be named to the Town’s 
satisfaction. 
 
8. Temporary turning circles or other approved turnarounds, shall be installed, if required 
by the approved phasing/staging of the subdivision, to the Town’s satisfaction.  
Provisions for the design, construction, and decommissioning of the turnarounds shall 
be incorporated in the subdivision agreement. 
 
9. The Owner acknowledges that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of 
Saugeen Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity generally. 
 
10. Watermains shall be looped as required by the Town of Saugeen Shores.  Looping shall 
also be required on the 10th Concession between Cutter Drive and the Acton Drive 
Extension. 
 
11. Fire hydrant leads shall be extended on appropriate easements or Blocks from the 
existing Huron Road watermain to the Acton Drive Extension.  Alternatively, if approved 
by the Town of Saugeen Shores, fire hydrant leads may be extended to service lots 
directly from Huron Road. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 3 of 10 
 
 
12. The use of individual sanitary pumps shall be minimized. Where practical a municipal 
pump station shall be provided for the areas requiring pumping, particularly the northerly 
section of the Acton Drive extension. 
 
13. The Owner shall submit to the Town of Saugeen Shores for review a study that 
investigates the feasibility of installing sanitary services to the entire subdivision, 
including the necessity of providing a sanitary pump station.  Said study shall 
investigate the feasibility of incorporating lands in proximity to the subdivision and 
provide recommendations for the appropriate financing of any pump station. 
 
14. If determined through condition 12, the owner shall submit to the Town of Saugeen 
Shores for review and approval a final design for the sanitary pump station. The design 
shall identify any additional works that may be required and all work associated with the 
sanitary pump station shall be incorporated in the works to be constructed at the 
owner's expense.  The Town of Saugeen Shores reserves the right to construct this 
pump station, if required. 
 
15. If determined through condition 12, the owner shall, in conjunction with the Town of 
Saugeen Shores, fulfill the requirements for a Class EA for the sewage pumping station. 
This will be required prior to final approval of the stage requiring the pump station. 
 
16. If determined through condition 12, the owner shall provide a suitable location for 
construction of the pump station and convey the necessary lands to the Town free and 
clear of encumbrances. 
 
17. The owner shall, at a minimum, be required to complete the following off-site 
improvements: 
 
 Huron Road ROW may include a sanitary sewer, storm drainage ditch and a 5 metre 
gravel access for maintenance purposes of the storm ditch and tree replacement.  
 A walkway connecting Acton Drive and Cutter Road; 
 Unnamed Lane (south of Hilly Lane) shall be designed and constructed for pedestrian 
access; 
 Hilly Lane shall be designed for pedestrian and emergency vehicle access; 
 Trails/walkways as shown on an approved Trails Plan; 
 An Active Transportation Route along the south side of Concession 10 connecting the 
sewage pump station lands and Cutter Road; 
 A collector ditch running parallel to the east of the Acton Drive right of way to convey 
surface flows to an adequate outlet(s).  The ditch shall be adequately sized to safely 
convey regulatory storm flows.  An access right-of-way shall be constructed to the Town 
of Saugeen Shores satisfaction. 
 
The Town of Saugeen Shores may enter into a reasonable efforts arrangement to 
recover developer front ending costs where it is demonstrated to the Town of Saugeen 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 4 of 10 
 
 
Shores satisfaction that there are other benefitting landowners and the Town has a 
reasonable opportunity to recover such costs from those benefiting landowners. 
 
18. The Owner shall prepare, to the Town’s satisfaction, an Integrated Lot Grading and 
Tree Retention Plan by a technically qualified consultant and in accordance with these 
conditions; The Plan shall indicate proposed lot grades and shall ensure minimal 
removal of trees. The Agreement may impose lot grading securities on each lot to 
provide assurances that the lots are graded in accordance with the approved drawings. 
 
19. The Owner shall prepare an erosion control plan to the Town’s satisfaction. 
 
20. All internal and external services and upgrades to existing services required for the 
development of this Plan shall be designed by a qualified professional to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores satisfaction and in accordance with the Town’s Development Manual 
and constructed/installed at the owner's expense. 
 
 
Parkland / Open Space 
21. That the Owner conveys land in the amount required pursuant to the Official Plan for 
The Town of Saugeen Shores for residential purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores 
for park purposes Alternatively, the Town of Saugeen Shores may accept cash-in-lieu 
for the said conveyance and under provisions of The Official Plan for The Town of 
Saugeen Shores is hereby authorized to do so.  The Town may also accept a 
combination of land and cash to satisfy this requirement. 
 
Easements 
 
22. That the Owner agrees to grant such easements as may be required for utility or 
drainage purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores or other appropriate authority. 
 
Subdivision Agreement 
 
23. That the Owner enter into an agreement with the Town of Saugeen Shores to satisfy all 
the requirements of the Town of Saugeen Shores, and including matters required in 
these conditions of approval and may also include the following to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores: 
 
i. 
the contribution to or the making of any required off-site improvements. 
ii. 
Consideration of secondary suites 
iii. 
Cost sharing for servicing provided to service external lands 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 5 of 10 
 
 
24. That the Subdivision Agreement be registered by the Town of Saugeen Shores against 
the land to which it applies and a copy of the registered agreement be forwarded to the 
County of Bruce at the time of Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Staging and Lapsing 
 
25. That the Owner agrees to stage any development of the Plan in a manner satisfactory 
to the Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
 
26. The Owner shall prepare a Phasing Plan, if deemed necessary by the Town, outlining 
the timing of the required studies, and the design and timing of construction of all 
amenities and services (road construction, services, pedestrian linkages, trails 
connections, etc.). 
 
27. That the Draft Approval for Plan of Subdivision S-2021-002 for Snyder Development 
Corp Inc in the Town of Saugeen Shores shall lapse as follows: 
 
a. For the first phase, three (3) years after the date of Draft Approval unless it has 
been extended by the County of Bruce with the concurrence of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores; and 
 
b. For any subsequent phases, five (5) years after the date of Final Approval of the 
preceding phase. 
 
Utilities & Canada Post 
 
28.  An overall utility distribution plan shall be prepared and submitted for approval to the 
satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
29. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate electric 
provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electrical services to this Plan.   
 
30. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of permanent or 
temporary telecommunications services, gas and cable services to this Plan. 
 
31. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of permanent or 
temporary gas cable services to this Plan. 
 
32. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the installation of postal 
boxes, if deemed necessary by Canada Post.  The location and design of postal boxes 
shall be jointly approved by Canada Post and the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 6 of 10 
 
 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
 
33. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Town of Saugeen Shores Local Official Plan approved 
under the Planning Act. 
 
34. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning Act.  Holding 
provisions, pursuant to Section 36 of The Planning Act may be used in conjunction with 
any zone category to be applied to the subject lands in order to ensure that 
development does not occur until such time as the Holding “H” symbol is removed in 
accordance with the provisions of The Planning Act.  The Zoning By-law shall specify 
the terms under which Council may consider the removal of the Holding “H” symbol. 
 
Notices & Warning Clauses 
 
35. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
include the requirement for the following Notice / Warning Clauses to be included in all 
offers of purchase and sale for residential lots on the Plan: 
 
“Stormwater Management Facilities 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater runoff on the 
lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management Plan. No Owner of any lot shall 
alter, interfere with or remove any of the Stormwater Management Facilities located 
within the lot except in accordance with the approved Stormwater Management Plan. 
Changes or alterations to the approved Stormwater Management Plan shall require the 
prior approval of the Town of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority.” 
 
 “Lot Grading 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an approved Lot Grading 
Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter the grade or place or remove any fill material within 
any yard except in accordance with the approved Lot Grading Plan. Changes or 
alterations to the approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.” 
 
“Tree Retention 
Purchases are advised that the existing vegetation on the lot may only be removed in 
accordance with an approved Tree Retention Plan. Changes or alterations to the 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 7 of 10 
 
 
approved Tree Retention Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town of Saugeen 
Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.” 
 
Tree Retention 
 
36. An integrated lot drainage and tree retention and protection plan shall be prepared and 
submitted for approval to the Town of Saugeen Shores. The integrated lot drainage and 
tree retention and protection plan is to be implemented throughout development of the 
Plan. 
 
37. The tree retention plan shall consider requirements for sight triangles at intersections 
and private driveways, construction of services on road allowances and private lots, 
driveway access, lot grading and building construction. 
 
38. The tree retention plan shall provide a methodology to be used to remove trees so as to 
avoid damage to the remaining trees. Specifications shall be provided to ensure minimal 
damage to tree roots by grading or excavation for footings and services. 
 
39. The integrated lot drainage and tree retention and protection plan shall be incorporated 
into a site plan agreement, if required, to appropriately implement the recommendations 
in the integrated lot grading and tree retention and protection plan. 
 
40. An Edge Management and Planting Plan shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores, to preserve the health of the woodlands and to restore 
vegetation removed as a result of the development of the Plan. 
 
41. The Owner shall prepare, to the Town’s satisfaction, a Tree Retention Plan prepared by 
a qualified person. The Plan shall outline how trees are to be retained and/or replaced 
during construction of the subdivision and building of the dwellings. The Agreement may 
impose securities on each lot to ensure the requirements of the tree retention plan are 
implemented. 
 
Attainable Housing 
 
42. The Owner shall agree to construct at least ten (10) secondary dwelling units within the 
subdivision. This term shall be incorporated into the subdivision agreement. 
 
Other 
 
43. All disturbed lots or blocks to be left vacant for longer than thirty (30) days shall be 
graded, seeded and maintained to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 8 of 10 
 
 
Digital Plan Submission 
 
44. That prior to Final Approval the Owner shall submit to the Town of Saugeen Shores  
and County of Bruce a digital file of the Plan to be registered in a format approved by 
the Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
 
45. That prior to final approval the SVCA must be satisfied with the final stormwater 
management report and engineering drawings (lot grading plan, sediment control plan, 
stormwater management catchment diagrams, etc.), including drainage entering the 
property form the east. Wording shall be included in the subdivision agreement that 
require stormwater design and maintenance measure to be implemented. 
 
46. That prior to final approval the SVCA must be satisfied with the final Environmental 
Impact Study, Site Plan, Landscaping/Planting  Plan; and that, SVCA be satisfied with 
wording in the Subdivision agreement that provides for the implementation of 
Environmental Impact Study, Mitigation measures, Site Plan, and Landscape/Planning 
Plan. 
 
Clearance Conditions 
47. That prior to Final Approval being given by the County of Bruce, the County shall 
receive a clearance letter from the following agencies indicating how conditions 
applicable to their authority have been completed to their satisfaction: 
 
a. Town of Saugeen Shores (conditions 3 to 28 inclusive, 33 to 44 inclusive) 
b. Electricity Service Provider (conditions 29); 
c. Gas Utility Provider (condition 31); 
d. Telecommunications and Cable Service Provider (condition 30); 
e. Canada Post (condition 32); 
f. Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (conditions 45 and 46). 
 
If agency conditions are incorporated into the subdivision agreement, a copy of the draft 
agreement should be sent to them. This will expedite clearance of the Final Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 9 of 10 
 
 
General Notes To Draft Approval 
1. It is the Owner’s responsibility to fulfill the Conditions of Draft Approval and to ensure 
that the required clearance letters are forwarded by the appropriate agencies to the 
County of Bruce Planning and Development Department quoting the appropriate 
subdivision file number. 
 
2. Final Approval – An ‘Application for Final Approval’ together with all supporting 
documentation, plans and the required filing fee must be submitted to the County of 
Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and the County of Bruce has 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. 
 
The number of mylar(s) and white paper prints as required for registration under the 
Registry Act must be submitted to the County of Bruce along with the ‘Application for 
Final Approval’. 
 
We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the County and 
the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any Application. 
 
3. Inauguration, or extension of a water works is subject to the approval of the Ministry of 
the Environment under Section 52 and Section 53 of the Ontario Water Resources Act, 
R.S.O. 1990. 
 
4. Clearance letters are required from the agencies listed under Item 47. Clearance 
Conditions of this approval. 
 
5. Note that you will not be advised in writing of the lapsing date of the Draft Plan 
Approval. It is your responsibility to provide the approval body with the required 
information and fees to extend this draft approval. Should the information and fees not 
be received prior to the lapsing date, the Draft Plan Approval will lapse. There is no 
authority to revise the approval after the lapsing date. A new subdivision application 
under Section 51 of the Planning Act will be required. Please note that an updated 
review of the plan and revision to the Conditions of Approval may be necessary if an 
extension is to be granted. 
 
6. Final Plans – When the survey has been completed and final plan prepared, to satisfy 
the requirements of the Registry Act, they should be forwarded to the County of Bruce. 
If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and we have received the required 
agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be endorsed on the plan and it 
will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. You are advised to consult the 
Land Registrar for requirements for registration prior to applying to the County of Bruce 
for Final Approval. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-002, Page 10 of 10 
 
 
7. The Owner is advised that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity.  
 
