File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 1 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
Conditions Of Draft Approval 
Plan Of Subdivision 
 
File Number 
41T-2016-02.46 
Owner 
Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited  
Legal Description 
Part Lots 33 to 37, Lake Range, Town of Saugeen Shores 
(geographic Town of Port Elgin)  
As shown on the attached Draft Plan prepared by 
Mitchinson Planning & Development Consultants Inc. on 
October 19, 2016 
Date of Draft Approval November 16, 2016, See Notices for Revision Dates 
 
The Council of the Corporation of the County of Bruce hereby issues Draft Approval to 
Subdivision File No. 41T-2016-02.46, which pertains to Part Lots 33 to 37, Lake Range, 
Town of Saugeen Shores (geographic Town of Port Elgin). The following conditions 
have been established by the County of Bruce and must be met prior to the granting 
of Final Approval: 
 
No. 
Condition 
 
Identification 
1. 
That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File 41T-2016-02.46 for Barry’s 
Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin  
Lands Limited in the Town of Saugeen Shores prepared by GM BluePlan 
Engineering, dated October 27, 2021, revised February 15, 2022Mitchinson 
Planning & Development Consultants Inc. dated October 19, 2016. 
 
Lot Layout and Density 
2. 
That this approval is in accordance with the 'Area Schedule' on the Plan dated  
October 27, 2021, revised February 15, 2022October 19, 2016. 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 2 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
3. 
That the Final Plan for registration shall incorporate a density that does not  
exceed the maximum density numbers identified in Blocks 227 and 228 on the 
Plan dated October 27, 2021, revised February 15, 2022October 19, 2016. 
Public Roads, Walkways, Service Corridor, and Future Development Blocks 
4. 
That the road allowances; road widenings; walkways and service corridors; and  
Future Development blocks shown on this Plan be conveyed to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores, free and clear of encumbrance, on the Final Plan. 
 
Further, that any dead ends and open sides of road allowances created by this 
Plan shall be terminated in a 0.3m reserve to be conveyed, free and clear of all 
encumbrances to the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
5. 
That the street(s) and lane(s) shall be named to the satisfaction of the Town of  
Saugeen Shores. 
 
Parkland 
6. 
That, if required by the Town, the Owner conveys to the Town of Saugeen  
Shores land for park purposes in the amount of 5% of the land included in the 
Plan for residential purposes, pursuant to the provisions of Section 51.1(1) of 
the Planning Act.  Alternatively, the Town may accept cash-in-lieu for the said 
conveyance and under the provisions of Section 51.1(3) of the Planning Act the 
Town is authorized to do so. The calculation of such land conveyance, or cash-
in-lieu, or combination of both, shall include the parkland amount previously 
dedicated to the Town for this Plan. 
 
Easements 
7. 
That the Owner agrees to grant such easements as may be required for utility,  
drainage, snow storage and/or turn-around purposes to the Town of Saugeen 
Shores or other appropriate authority. 
 
Subdivision Agreement 
8. 
That the Owner and its successors enter into an Agreement with the Town of  
Saugeen Shores to satisfy all the requirements of the Town of Saugeen Shores, 
in accordance with Section 51(26) of the Planning Act, and may include the 
following: 
 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 3 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
i. 
Stormwater Management Plan prepared by a qualified consultant.   
The Plan shall detail the methods that will be used to control surface 
water and erosion and sedimentation within the development lands and 
through abutting properties during and following construction.  The 
report shall also detail the methods that will reduce any negative 
impacts to water quality.  Requirements for drainage easements/blocks 
shall be identified; such blocks shall be acquired by the Owner, if 
required, and conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, free and clear of 
encumbrance. 
 
ii. 
Lot Grading / Drainage Plan prepared by a qualified consultant. 
The Plan shall indicate proposed lot grades and shall ensure minimal 
removal of trees. 
 
iii. 
Phasing Plan prepared by a qualified consultant. 
The Plan shall outline the timing of the required studies, the design of 
construction of all amenities and services (road construction, services, 
pedestrian linkages, trails connections, etc.) and the allocation of 
services in each phase.  
 
iv. 
Trails Plan prepared by a technically qualified consultant. 
The Plan shall identify the trail system above the Nipissing Ridge with 
connections, as needed, to the existing trail system. The Trails Plan shall 
also outline how trails shall be financed in this area of Town and shall 
identify contributing parties. 
 
v. 
Traffic Impact Study prepared by a technically qualified consultant, to 
the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores.  
 
vi. 
A clause that specifies the extent of off-site road and service 
improvements, directly attributable to the development, if such are 
required.  
 
vii. 
Temporary turning circles, or other approved turnarounds, shall be 
installed at the south ends of Ridge and Bruce Streets, if required.  The 
design, construction and decommissioning of the turnarounds shall be to 
the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
vii.viii. 
Provision of accessory residential units within each phase of the 
subdivision, the terms of which shall be determined to the satisfaction 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 4 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
of the Town of Saugeen Shores and incorporated into the subdivision 
agreement. 
9. 
That the Town of Saugeen Shores undertake to register the Subdivision  
Agreement against the land to which it applies, and a copy of the Agreement 
be forwarded to the County of Bruce prior Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Utilities and Canada Post 
10. 
That the Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate 
electric provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electrical 
services to this Plan. 
11. 
That the Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of 
permanent or temporary telecommunications services, gas and cable services 
to this Plan. 
12. 
That the Owner provides an overall utility distribution plan to the satisfaction 
of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
13. 
That the Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the installation  
of postal boxes, if deemed necessary by Canada Post.  The location and 
construction standard of community postal boxes shall be jointly approved by 
Canada Post and the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
Phasing and Lapsing 
14. 
That the Owner agrees to phase any development of the Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Town of Saugeen Shores and the County of Bruce. 
15. 
The registration of this Plan may proceed in phases, and in accordance with the 
Phasing Plan, acceptable to the Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce.  
16. 
That the Draft Approval for Plan of Subdivision 41T-2016-02.46 for Barry’s 
Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands Limited in the Town of 
Saugeen Shores shall lapse as follows: 
i. 
For the first phase, three (3) years after the date of Draft Approval 
unless it has been extended by the County of Bruce with the concurrence 
of the Town of Saugeen Shores; and 
 
ii. 
For any subsequent phases, fivethree (53) years after the date of Final 
Approval of the preceding phase. 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 5 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
17. 
That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the 
Plan of Subdivision conforms to the Town of Saugeen Shores Local Official Plan 
approved under the Planning Act. 
18. 
That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the 
Plan of Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning 
Act. 
Notices & Warning Clauses 
19. 
That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and its successors and the  
Town of Saugeen Shores include the requirement for the following Notice / 
Warning Clauses to be included in all offers of purchase and sale for residential 
lots on the Plan: 
 
i. 
“Stormwater Management Facilities 
 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater 
runoff on the lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management 
Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter, interfere with or remove any of 
the Stormwater Management Facilities located within the lot except in 
accordance with the approved Stormwater Management Plan. Changes or 
alterations to the approved Stormwater Management Plan shall require 
the prior approval of the Town of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley 
Conservation Authority." 
 
ii. 
"Lot Grading 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an 
approved Lot Grading Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter the grade or 
place or remove any fill material within any yard except in accordance 
with the approved Lot Grading Plan. Changes or alterations to the 
approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority." 
iii. 
"Wind Turbine 
Purchasers are advised that in accordance with a Ministry of 
Environment Certificate of Approval a wind turbine with a hub height of 
76 metres has been constructed on the UNIFOR lands located to the 
south of this subdivision.  As such, noise, light and other effects 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 6 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
associated with wind energy conversion facilities may be expected 
throughout the year." 
iv. 
"Park 
Purchasers are advised that a municipal park is located in proximity to 
the lots.  As such, noise, light and other effects associated with park 
activities may be expected during the days and evenings throughout the 
year." 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority  
20. 
That prior to Final Approval by the County, the Owner shall submit for review 
and approval to the SVCA the following: 
i. 
Stormwater Management Report prepared by a qualified consultant.  
a. A detailed Report shall be prepared in accordance with the 
prevailing Ministry of the Environment planning and design 
guidelines and other related technical criteria as determined by 
the SVCA.  The Report shall detail the methods that will be used 
to control surface water flow within the development lands and 
through abutting properties during and following construction.  
The report shall also detail the methods that will reduce any 
negative impacts to water quality. 
  
b. In the event that the Report recommends the establishment of 
any stormwater works, including detention or retention facilities, 
the subdivision agreement between the Owner and the Town of 
Saugeen Shores shall contain a provision whereby the Town of 
Saugeen Shores will assume ownership, operation and 
maintenance responsibility of same in perpetuity. 
 
ii. 
Lot Grading Plan prepared by a qualified consultant.  The detailed Plan 
shall be prepared in accordance with the prevailing Ministry of the 
Environment planning and design guidelines and other related technical 
criteria as determined by the SVCA 
21. 
That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen 
Shores contain the following provisions with wording acceptable to the SVCA: 
i. 
The owner agrees to carry out or cause to be carried out the works 
recommended in the Stormwater Management Plan and Lot Grading Plan 
to the satisfaction of the SVCA. 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 7 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
 
ii. 
The Town of Saugeen Shores shall assume ownership, operation and 
maintenance responsibility for any stormwater facilities proposed. 
22. 
That prior to Final Approval, the Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority provide 
written confirmation that the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and 
the Town of Saugeen Shores addresses all the requirements of Saugeen Valley 
Conservation Authority.  
Bluewater District School Board 
23. 
That the owner(s) shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement with wording 
acceptable to Bluewater District School Board to: 
i. 
Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising 
prospective purchasers that accommodation within a public school 
operated by Bluewater District School Board may include temporary 
facilities, including but not limited to, portable classrooms or directing 
students to an alternative attendance boundary. 
 
ii. 
Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising 
prospective purchasers that student busing is at the discretion of the 
Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
 
iii. 
Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising 
prospective purchasers that if school buses are required within the 
Subdivision in accordance with Board Transportation policies, as may be 
amended from time to time, school bus pick up points will generally be 
located on the through street at a location as determined by the Student 
Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
 
i.iv. 
Provide sidewalks and pedestrian linkages throughout the subdivision, to 
promote active transportation and safe walking routes to the satisfaction 
of the Town of Saugeen Shores in consultation with the Bluewater 
District School Board. 
Digital Plan Submission 
2423. That prior to Final Approval the Owner shall submit to the County and Town a 
digital file of the Plan to be registered in Shapefile (shp) format referenced to 
NAD83 UTM. 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 8 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
Clearance Conditions 
2524. That prior to Final Approval, the County of Bruce is to be advised by the Town  
of Saugeen Shores that Condition Nos. 4-15, 17-19, and 2423 inclusive have 
been carried out to their satisfaction. The clearance letter from the Town of 
Saugeen Shores shall include a brief but complete statement detailing how 
each condition has been satisfied. 
 
2625. That prior to Final Approval, the County of Bruce is to be advised by Saugeen  
Valley Conservation Authority that Condition Nos. 20-22 inclusive have been 
carried out to their satisfaction. The clearance letter shall include a brief but 
complete statement detailing how each condition has been satisfied. 
 
27. 
That prior to Final Approval, the County of Bruce is to be advised by the 
Bluewater District School Board that Condition No. 23 has been carried out to 
their satisfaction. The clearance letter shall include a brief but complete 
statement detailing how each condition has been satisfied. 
 
 
 
 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 9 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
General Notes To Draft Approval 
1. 
It is the Owner’s responsibility to fulfill the Conditions of Draft Approval and to 
ensure that the required clearance letters are forwarded by the appropriate 
agencies to the County of Bruce Planning and Development Department quoting 
the appropriate subdivision file number. 
2. 
Final Approval – An ‘Application for Final Approval’ together with all supporting 
documentation, plans and the required filing fee must be submitted to the 
County of Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and we have 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for 
registration.  
 
The number of mylar(s) and white paper prints as required for registration under 
the Registry Act must be submitted to the County of Bruce along with the 
‘Application for Final Approval’. 
 
We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the 
County and the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any 
Application. 
3. 
Inauguration, or extension of a water works or sewage works is subject to the 
approval of the Ministry of the Environment under Section 52 and Section 53 of 
the Ontario Water Resources Act, R.S.O. 1990. 
4. 
Clearance letters are required from the following agencies listed in the 
Conditions of Draft Plan of Subdivision Approval.: 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
600 Tomlinson Drive 
PO Box 820 
Port Elgin, ON NOH 2C0 
1078 Bruce Road #12 
PO Box 150 
Formosa, ON N0G 1W0 
 
5.  
Note that you will not be advised in writing of the lapsing date of the Draft Plan 
Approval. It is your responsibility to provide the approval body with the required 
information and fees to extend this draft approval. Should the information and 
fees not be received prior to the lapsing date, the Draft Plan Approval will lapse. 
There is no authority to revise the approval after the lapsing date. A new 
subdivision application under Section 51 of the Planning Act will be required. 
Please note that an updated review of the plan and revision to the Conditions of 
Approval may be necessary if an extension is to be granted. 
File Number 41T-2016-02.46 
Page 10 of 10 Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd.Port Elgin Lands 
Limited 
6.  
Final Plans – When the survey has been completed and final plan prepared, to 
satisfy the requirements of the Registry Act, they should be forwarded to the 
County of Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and we have 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for 
registration.  You are advised to consult the Land Registrar for requirements for 
registration prior to applying to the County of Bruce for final approval. 
The following is required for registration under the Registry Act: 
One (1)  
original mylar 
Five (5)  
white paper prints (to include 1 print for OLS)  
 
