 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-367-3040, Fax 519-367-3041, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.svca.on.ca 
 
 
 
 
Watershed Member Municipalities 
Municipality of Arran-Elderslie, Municipality of Brockton, Township of Chatsworth, Municipality of Grey Highlands, 
Town of Hanover, Township of Howick, Municipality of Morris-Turnberry, Municipality of South Bruce, 
Township of Huron-Kinloss, Municipality of Kincardine, Town of Minto, Township of Wellington North, 
Town of Saugeen Shores, Township of Southgate, Municipality of West Grey 
 
Sent via electronic mail only- 
 
February 10, 2022 
 
Bruce County Planning and  
Economic Development Department 
1243 MacKenzie Road, 
Port Elgin, ON 
N0H 2C6 
 
 
ATTENTION:  
Robyn McIntyre, Planning 
  
Dear Ms. McIntyre: 
 
RE:  Proposed Red Line Revision and Zoning by-law amendment 41T-2016-02 & Z-2021-093 
 
LAKE RANGE PT LOTS;33 TO 36 RP 3R8329 PART 24;PT  
 
PARTS 9 17 21 TO 23 RP;3R9500 PART 2  
 
Roll Number: 411046000440302  
 
Geographic Town of Port Elgin 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores  
  
 
(Barry’s Construction and Insulation Ltd)  
  
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted proposal as per our 
delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards 
identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under 
Ontario Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines 
and Watercourses Regulation).  SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOA) with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, and water 
resources; and the proposal has also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the Planning 
Act as per our CA Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual, amended 
October 16, 2018. 
 
The purpose of the amendments is to change the zoning on the site and to red line the subdivision to allow 
a different lot layout on site.   
 
Staff have received and reviewed the following documents submitted with these proposed amendments: 
1) Request for Agency Comments for proposed Red Line Revision and Zoning by-law amendment 
41T-2016-02 & Z-2021-093 
 
Recommendation 
 
SVCA staff find this proposal acceptable.  Please see below report for more information. 
 
 
Bruce County Planning and  
Economic Development Department 
Proposed Red Line Revision and Zoning by-law amendment 41T-2016-02 & Z-2021-093 
February 10, 2022 
Page 2 of 4 
 
Site Characteristics 
 
The subject property is cleared, culturally disturbed land located in the south portion end of Port Elgin and 
is largely surrounded by urban development. 
 
Delegated Responsibility and Advisory Comments  
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the proposal through our delegated responsibility from the Province to 
represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy 
Statement (PPS, 2020).  We have also reviewed the proposal through our responsibilities as a service 
provider to the County of Bruce in that we provide expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act 
applications with regards to natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources as set out in the PPS 
2020, County Official Plan and/or local official plans.  Comments below only include features/technical 
requirements affecting the property.   
 
Natural Hazards: 
 
The subject property is not affected by natural hazards as defined in the PPS, 2020. 
 
Natural Heritage: 
 
It has come to the attention of SVCA staff that habitat of Endangered Species and Threatened Species may 
be located on or adjacent to the property.     
 
SVCA’s role is to identify endangered/threatened species habitat via screening process in consideration of 
the PPS and local policies but we must direct applicants to Ministry of Environment, Conservation and Parks 
(MECP) for follow-up.  It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the endangered species and 
threatened species policy referred to in the PPS has been appropriately addressed.  Please contact the 
Ministry of Environment, Conservation and Parks (MECP) at SAROntario@ontario.ca for information on 
how to address this policy.   
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 2.1  
 
Section 2.1.7 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in habitat 
of endangered species and threatened species.   
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan Policies 
 
Section 2.6.3.2 of the Saugeen Shores OP states, in part, that no development or site alteration shall 
be permitted in habitat of endangered or threatened species. 
 
Water Resources:  
 
 
Bruce County Planning and  
Economic Development Department 
Proposed Red Line Revision and Zoning by-law amendment 41T-2016-02 & Z-2021-093 
February 10, 2022 
Page 3 of 4 
 
The subject property appears to SVCA staff to not be located within an area that is subject to the local 
Drinking Water Source Protection Plan. To confirm, please contact Carl Seider, Risk Management Official 
(RMO).   
 
Stormwater Management  
 
The stormwater management plan prepared by GM Blueplan Engineering, has been reviewed by SVCA staff 
associated with the larger development.  SVCA staff find the proposal stormwater management plan 
acceptable provided the proposed is consistent with results of previously approved reports for the area and 
the Municipality confirms appropriate integration with that plan.  
 
Statutory Comments 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the proposal as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation).  This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, 
enables SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland 
lake shorelines, watercourses, hazardous lands, and wetlands.  Subject to the CA Act, development 
taking place on or adjacent to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control 
of flooding, erosion, dynamic beaches, pollution, or the conservation of land are not affected.  SVCA also 
regulates the alteration to or interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
 
The proposal is not affected by the SVCA’s regulation.   
 
Summary 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed this proposal in accordance with our MOA with the County of Bruce, as per our 
mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our regulatory role under the 
Conservation Authorities Act. 
 
SVCA staff find this proposal acceptable, and given the above comments, it is the opinion of staff that: 
1) Consistency with Section 3.1, Natural Hazard policies of the PPS has been demonstrated. 
2) Consistency with Section 2.1, Natural Heritage policies of the PPS has been demonstrated provided 
species are addressed. 
3) Consistency with local planning policies for natural hazards and natural heritage has been 
demonstrated provided species are addressed. 
  
Please inform this office of any decision made by Town/County with regard to this propsoal.  We 
respectfully request to receive a copy of the decision and notice of any appeals filed. 
 
 
Yours Sincerely,  
 
 
Bruce County Planning and  
Economic Development Department 
Proposed Red Line Revision and Zoning by-law amendment 41T-2016-02 & Z-2021-093 
February 10, 2022 
Page 4 of 4 
 
Erik Downing 
Manager, Environmental Planning and Regulations 
Saugeen Conservation 
 
ED/ 
cc: 
Linda White, Clerk, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
Jay Pausner, Supervisor, Development Services, Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
David Myette, Authority Member, SVCA (via email) 
 
 Cheryl Grace, Authority Member, SVCA (via email) 
