 
 
 
 
From: 
Karen Heisler 
To: 
Coreena Smith 
Cc: 
Claire Dodds 
Subject: 
Re: Easthampton Subdivision - SON Technical Review 
Date: 
Thursday, July 6, 2023 4:28:00 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Yes, thank you. 
Karen 
Karen Heisler, Ph.D. 
Resources & Infrastructure Associate 
T: (519)534-5507 
10129 Hwy 6 Georgian Bluffs, ON 
N0H 2T0 
saugeenojibwaynation.ca 
I am grateful to live, work, and benefit from the Lands and Waters of the Saugeen Ojibway Nation. 
On Thu, Jul 6, 2023 at 4:22 PM Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> wrote: 
Hi Karen, 
As discussed, here are the amended conditions to cover SON’s natural heritage comments 
on the Easthampton file (S-2022-007) without having SON as a clearance agency: 
1. That prior to development and site alteration, the Owner provide written 
correspondence from a a technically qualified consultant indicating that all mitigation 
and best management practices recommended in the Environmental Impact Study 
(AWS Consulting Inc., dated February 2022), as may be amended, has/is/continues to 
 
be followed to the satisfaction of the County of Bruce and Town of Saugeen Shores in 
consultation with the Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment Office in accordance with 
their comments, processes and standards. 
2. That the Subdivision Agreement against the land to which it applies include a clause 
requiring the Owner to carry out or cause to be carried out the mitigation and best 
management practices recommended in the Environmental Impact Study (AWS 
Consulting Inc., dated February 2022), as may be amended, to the satisfaction of the 
County of Bruce and Town of Saugeen Shores in consultation with the Saugeen 
Ojibway Nation Environment Office in accordance with their comments, processes 
and standards. 
Based on our discussion, I understand archaeological monitoring is no longer a comment. 
If, however, a condition is needed for this project, this would be my suggestion: 
3. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
include the following clause to the satisfaction of the County of Bruce in consultation 
with the Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment Office: Should previously 
undocumented archaeological resources be discovered, they may be an 
archaeological site and therefore subject to Section 48 (1) of the Ontario Heritage Act. 
The proponent or person discovering the archaeological resources must cease 
alteration of the site immediately and engage with Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
Archaeology staff to pre-consult prior to obtaining a licensed consultant archaeologist 
to carry out archaeological fieldwork, in compliance with Section 48 (1) of the Ontario 
Heritage Act and in keeping with the Archaeological Standards of the Saugeen 
Ojibway Nation. 
Let me know if you have any questions or comments. 
Sincerely, 
