County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
1243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin ON N0H 2C6 
brucecounty.on.ca 
226-909-5515 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval  
Plan of Subdivision 
The Council of the Corporation of the County of Bruce hereby issues Draft Approval to the 
following Application:   
File Number  
 
S-2022-007  
For 
 
 
 
Launch Property Group Inc. c/o Brooks Turton 
In Respect Of  
Lots 1 to 32, Plan M42 
 
Geographic Town of Southampton 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Date of Draft Approval 
As per the County Decision Sheet 
The following conditions have been established by the County of Bruce and must be met prior 
to the granting of Final Approval: 
Identification 
1. That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File S-2022-007 for the Launch 
Property Group Inc. on lands legally known as Lots 1 to 32, Plan M42, Geographic 
Town of Southampton, Town of Saugeen Shores, prepared by GM BluePlan 
Engineering, dated June 16, 2020, revised April 21, 2023 (Drawing Number DP1), and 
signed by the Owner on May 10, 2023.   
Lot Layout and Density 
2. That this approval is in accordance with the 'Land Use Schedule’ on the Plan of 
Subdivision, prepared by GM BluePlan Engineering, dated June 16, 2020, revised April 
21, 2023 (Drawing Number DP1), and signed by the Owner on May 10, 2023.  
Servicing, Stormwater Management, Public Roads, Walkways & Streetlighting  
3. That any dead ends and open sides of road allowances created by this Draft Plan be 
terminated in 0.3 metre reserves to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
4. That sidewalks be installed: 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 2 of 9 
a. On one side of the local streets in a location and standard approved by the Town 
of Saugeen Shores. 
b. On both sides of collector roads in a location and standard approved by the Town 
of Saugeen Shores. 
c. External to the Plan of Subdivision, where required by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores. 
5. That before any lots, blocks, roads, parkland, walkways, trails, service corridors, 0.3 
metre reserves and sidewalks identified in this Plan are conveyed to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores, they shall be free and clear of all encumbrances to the satisfaction of 
the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
6. That all street and public lighting fixtures be dark-sky compliant to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores. 
7. That Site Visibility Triangles at the intersections of all roads be conveyed to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores, as required by the Town of Saugeen Shores, and be provided free 
and clear of encumbrances. 
8. That temporary turning circles or other approved turnarounds be installed, if required by 
the approved phasing/staging of the subdivision, to the satisfaction of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores. Provisions for the design, construction, and decommissioning of the 
turnarounds shall be incorporated in the subdivision agreement. 
9. That the Owner acknowledge that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of 
Saugeen Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity generally.  Notwithstanding the 
previous statement, commitment to reserve water and sanitary servicing capacity shall 
be granted where existing agreements identify such commitment but only to the extent 
such detail provides in existing agreements. 
10. That watermains be looped as required by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
11. That a Stormwater Management Plan be prepared by a technically qualified consultant 
to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
12. That a Lot Grading Plan be prepared by a technically qualified consultant to the 
satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. The Plan shall indicate proposed lot 
grades and shall ensure minimal removal of trees. The Agreement may impose lot 
grading securities on each lot to provide assurances that the lots are graded in 
accordance with the approved drawings. 
13. That an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan be prepared by a technically qualified 
consultant to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
14. That a Geotechnical Investigation be prepared by a technically qualified consultant to 
the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 3 of 9 
15. That all internal and external services and upgrades to existing services required for the 
development of this Plan be designed by a qualified professional to the satisfaction of 
the Town of Saugeen Shores and in accordance with the Town’s Development Manual 
and constructed/installed at the Owner's expense. 
16. That the stormwater management facilities be fenced, or an approved alternative means 
of demarcation provided, to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
Parkland / Open Space 
17. That the Owner convey land in the amount required pursuant to The Official Plan for 
The Town of Saugeen Shores for residential purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores 
for park purposes. Alternatively, the Town of Saugeen Shores may accept cash-in-lieu 
for the said conveyance and under provisions of The Official Plan for The Town of 
Saugeen Shores is hereby authorized to do so.  The Town may also accept a 
combination of land and cash-in-lieu to satisfy this requirement. 
Subdivision Agreement 
18. That the Owner enter into an agreement with the Town of Saugeen Shores to satisfy all 
the requirements of the Town of Saugeen Shores, and including matters required in 
these conditions of approval and may also include the following to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores: 
a. the contribution to or the making of any required off-site improvements. 
19. That the Subdivision Agreement against the land to which it applies include a clause 
prohibiting the Owner from registering a restrictive covenant under Section 119 of the 
Land Titles Act, or any other Act, that would prohibit, restrict, or regulate any use(s) of 
the land otherwise permitted via the applicable Zoning By-law and that a Draft copy of 
the Subdivision Agreement be forwarded to the County of Bruce prior to registration of 
the Agreement. 
20. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
include the following clause to the satisfaction of the County of Bruce in consultation 
with the Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment Office: Should previously undocumented 
archaeological resources be discovered, they may be an archaeological site and 
therefore subject to Section 48 (1) of the Ontario Heritage Act. The proponent or person 
discovering the archaeological resources must cease alteration of the site immediately 
and engage with Saugeen Ojibway Nation Archaeology staff to pre-consult prior to 
obtaining a licensed consultant archaeologist to carry out archaeological fieldwork, in 
compliance with Section 48 (1) of the Ontario Heritage Act and in keeping with the 
Archaeological Standards of the Saugeen Ojibway Nation. 
21. That the Town of Saugeen Shores undertake to register the Subdivision Agreement 
against the land to which it applies, and a copy of the registered agreement be 
forwarded to the County of Bruce at the time of Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 4 of 9 
Notices & Warning Clauses 
22. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
include the requirement for the following Notice / Warning Clauses to be included in all 
offers of purchase and sale for residential lots on the Plan: 
a. “Stormwater Management Facilities 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater runoff 
on the lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management Plan. No Owner 
of any lot shall alter, interfere with, or remove any of the Stormwater 
Management Facilities located within the lot except in accordance with the 
approved Stormwater Management Plan. Changes or alterations to the approved 
Stormwater Management Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.” 
b. “Stormwater Management Facilities on Adjacent Lands 
Purchasers are advised that a stormwater management facility for the 
management of stormwater runoff is located on adjacent lands.  The stormwater 
management facility may be left in a naturally vegetated condition and will be 
accessed for maintenance purposes which, from time-to-time, may include heavy 
construction vehicles." 
c. “Lot Grading 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an approved Lot 
Grading Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter the grade or place or remove any 
fill material within any yard except in accordance with the approved Lot Grading 
Plan. Changes or alterations to the approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the 
prior approval of the Town of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority.” 
Attainable Housing 
23. That the Owner agree to construct at least two (2) additional residential units within Lots 
1 to 9 in the Plan. This term shall be incorporated into the subdivision agreement. 
Block 10 
24. That the Owner agree to install stormwater works on Block 10 to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores. 
25. That the Owner acknowledge that Block 10 is to be developed, if to be developed, as a 
Plan of Subdivision. 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 5 of 9 
Other 
26. That all disturbed lots or blocks to be left vacant for longer than thirty (30) days be 
graded, seeded, and maintained to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
27. That prior to development and site alteration, the Owner provide written correspondence 
from a a technically qualified consultant indicating that all mitigation and best 
management practices recommended in the Environmental Impact Study (AWS 
Consulting Inc., dated February 2022), as may be amended, has/is/continues to be 
followed to the satisfaction of the County of Bruce in consultation with the Saugeen 
Ojibway Nation Environment Office in accordance with their comments, processes and 
standards. 
28. That the Subdivision Agreement against the land to which it applies include a clause 
requiring the Owner to carry out or cause to be carried out the mitigation and best 
management practices recommended in the Environmental Impact Study (AWS 
Consulting Inc., dated February 2022), as may be amended, to the satisfaction of the 
County of Bruce in consultation with the Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment Office in 
accordance with their comments, processes and standards. 
Easements 
29. That the Owner agree to grant such easements as may be required for utility, drainage, 
snow storage and/or turn-around purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores or other 
appropriate authority. 
Utilities & Canada Post 
30. That the Owner prepare an overall utility distribution plan to the satisfaction of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores including the necessary easements and/or agreements required for 
the provision of utilities. 
31. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate electricity 
service provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electricity services to this 
Plan. 
32. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate gas 
service provider for the provision of permanent or temporary natural gas services to this 
Plan. 
33. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate 
telecommunications and cable service providers for the provision of permanent or 
temporary telecommunications and cable services to this Plan. 
34. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements for the installation of postal 
boxes, if deemed necessary by Canada Post.  The location and design of postal boxes 
shall be jointly approved by Canada Post and the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 6 of 9 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
35. That prior to any site alteration/grading or construction on-site, and prior to Final 
Approval of the subdivision by the County, the Owner shall prepare the following, 
reports/plans, completed to the satisfaction of the Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority: 
a. Final Lot Grading and Drainage Plan and Sediment and Erosion Control Plan; 
and  
b. Final Stormwater Management Report.  
36. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
contain provisions with wording acceptable to the Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority relating to the Final Lot Grading and Drainage Plan, Final Sediment and 
Erosion Control Plan, and Final Stormwater Management Report. 
Bluewater District School Board 
37. That the Owner agree in the Subdivision Agreement with wording acceptable to 
Bluewater District School Board to: 
a. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that accommodation within a public school operated by Bluewater 
District School Board may include temporary facilities, including but not limited to, 
a portable classroom, a “holding school”, or directing students to an alternative 
attendance boundary. 
b. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that student busing is at the discretion of the Student Transportation 
Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
c. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that if school buses are required within the Subdivision in accordance 
with Board Transportation policies, as may be amended from time to time, school 
bus pick up points will generally be located on the through street at a location as 
determined by the Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
d. Provide sidewalks throughout the subdivision to facilitate heavy foot traffic areas 
and promote walkability to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores in 
consultation with the Bluewater District School Board. 
Phasing and Lapsing 
38. That the Owner agree to phase any development of the Plan in a manner satisfactory to 
the Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
39. That the Owner prepare a Phasing Plan, if deemed necessary by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores and County of Bruce, outlining the timing of the required studies, and the design 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 7 of 9 
and timing of construction of all amenities and services (road construction, services, 
sidewalks, pedestrian linkages, trails connections, etc.). 
40. That the Draft Approval for Plan of Subdivision S-2022-007 for Launch Property Group 
Inc. in the Town of Saugeen Shores shall lapse as follows: 
a. For the first phase, three (3) years after the date of Draft Approval unless it has 
been extended by the County of Bruce with the concurrence of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores; and 
b. For any subsequent phases, five (5) years after the date of Final Approval of the 
preceding phase. 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
41. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan approved under the 
Planning Act. 
42. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning Act.  Holding 
provisions, pursuant to Section 36 of the Planning Act may be used in conjunction with 
any zone category to be applied to the subject lands to ensure that development does 
not occur until such time as the Holding “H” symbol is removed in accordance with the 
provisions of the Planning Act.  The Zoning By-law shall specify the terms under which 
Council may consider the removal of the Holding “H” symbol. 
Digital Plan Submission 
43. That prior to Final Approval, the Owner submit to the Town of Saugeen Shores and 
County of Bruce a digital file of the Plan to be registered in a format approved by the 
Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
Clearance Conditions 
44. That prior to Final Approval being given by the County of Bruce, the County shall 
receive a clearance letter from the following agencies indicating how conditions 
applicable to their authority have been completed to their satisfaction: 
a. Town of Saugeen Shores (conditions 3 to 19 inclusive, 21 to 26 inclusive, 29, 30, 
34, 38, 39, 41 to 43 inclusive); 
b. Electricity Service Provider (condition 31); 
c. Gas Utility Provider (condition 32); 
d. Telecommunications and Cable Service Provider (condition 33); 
e. Canada Post (condition 34); 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 8 of 9 
f. Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (conditions 35 to 36 inclusive); 
g. Bluewater District School Board (condition 37). 
If agency conditions are incorporated into the subdivision agreement, a copy of the draft 
agreement should be sent to them. This will expedite clearance of the Final Plan. 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2022-007 Launch Property Group Inc., Page 9 of 9 
General Notes to Draft Approval 
1. It is the Owner’s responsibility to fulfill the Conditions of Draft Approval and to ensure 
that the required clearance letters are forwarded by the appropriate agencies to the 
County of Bruce Planning and Development Department quoting the appropriate 
subdivision file number. 
2. Clearance letters are required from the agencies listed under “Clearance Conditions” of 
this approval. 
3. Final Approval – An ‘Application for Final Approval’ together with all supporting 
documentation, plans and the required filing fee must be submitted to the County of 
Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and the County of Bruce has 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan, and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. 
The number of mylar(s) and white paper prints as required for registration under the 
Registry Act must be submitted to the County of Bruce along with the ‘Application for 
Final Approval’.  
We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the County and 
the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any Application. 
4. You are advised to consult the Land Registrar for requirements for registration prior to 
applying to the County of Bruce for Final Approval. 
5. Inauguration, or extension of a water works is subject to the approval of the Ministry of 
the Environment under Section 52 and Section 53 of the Ontario Water Resources Act, 
R.S.O. 1990. 
6. Note that you will not be advised in writing of the lapsing date of the Draft Plan 
Approval. It is your responsibility to provide the approval body with the required 
information and fees to extend this draft approval. Should the information and fees not 
be received prior to the lapsing date, the Draft Plan Approval will lapse. Please note that 
an updated review of the plan and revision to the Conditions of Approval may be 
necessary if an extension is to be granted. 
7. The Owner is advised that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity.  
