Public Comments
From:
Sheila Latham
To:
Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub
Subject:
East Hampton Subdivision
Date:
Tuesday, September 27, 2022 8:46:19 AM
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Hello, 
As an interested citizen, I am hoping you can send me some information about the subdivision
that is planned for the area east of Grenville Street in Southampton. 
I have found a map and I am wondering if you have any more information. 
Lots 1 to 32, Plan M42 (Southampton) Town of Saugeen Shores Roll Number 411048000400601
Has the subdivision been approved? 
How many houses will there be?
What size are the lots?
Can you share any visual information with me?
Thank you.
Sheila Latham
Southampton 
From:
Coreena Smith
To:
Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub
Subject:
FW: Easthampton Development Proposal
Date:
Thursday, September 22, 2022 1:41:41 PM
Klarika,
Can you please respond to this public comment and send them the application materials?  Please let
them know that I would be happy to discuss the file further once they have had a chance to look at
the submission package.
Please also forward this comment to the agent, applicant, Linda and Jay.
Thanks
 
From: Byron Harris 
 
Sent: Wednesday, August 17, 2022 4:07 PM
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>
Subject: Re: Easthampton Development Proposal
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Coreena Smith,
Thank you for responding to my inquiry re File S-2022-007) .
We own the property that abuts the large block, to the north, designated as future development for
storm water management.  The proposal at hand does not specify what might take place on that
block in the future.  I have been watching current development on McNabb street, across from the
Brewer's Retail store.  That project has created substantial redirection of drainage and significant
deforestation.  I would echo my neighbour, Robin Hilborn's, concern expressed re deforestation
impacts of the current Eastgate application.  But I have additional personal concerns, since my
property abuts the large block (future development) which is part of this application, about what
might occur in the Hazard land in that ravine.  My property is part of that hazard designation, as I
said, to the North.
The photograph sent to us with notification of the current application shows a large area to the east
showing potential lot designations.  I realize that the application is not currently seeking approval
regarding those lots.  But undoubtedly should an application for that portion be made, its
development would substantially increase surface runoff that would be directed to the drainage and
so flow through the large block which is part of this application.  So I am wondering what
consideration is being given to this "future development".
I am sure your records will have archived the application that was sought several years ago for the
entire holding, including the nine lots currently sought, along with the area shown on the aerial
photograph that has been overlain with potential lots.  That earlier proposal, if memory serves me
correctly, included a retention pond. But there is no such retention pond indicated on the
notification sent to us regarding the current proposal.  I believe it was shown, on the previous plan
of subdivision, directly east of the large (future development) block included in the current
application.  I went to meetings regarding that earlier proposal but I am working from memory on
that.  Would it be the intention to establish such a retention pond somewhere on the balance of the
land that is currently not part of the submitted application?  Or would it be the plan to direct storm
water down the existing stream, without holding it back, to regulate the flow?  If that is the case I
fear that significant modifications to the existing water course would need occur and this would
substantially affect my property.  
The drainage servicing the development on McNabb St., that I referred to earlier, has substantially
altered the vegetation, the stream bed and so the appearance of that area.
I would appreciate some indication that thought is being given to such concerns and some forward
knowledge of what would be in store should that larger plan of subdivision be submitted for
approval in the future.
I look forward to hearing from you on these matters.  If you have time at some point for a meeting
(personal or public) to discuss the vision for the entire block, that would be appreciated.  Until such
time as a meeting might occur, you perhaps have thoughts you might share to address the concerns
I have expressed.  You have my contact info on record.  I await your response.  Let me know if I
might come to discuss the maps/plan proposals, or perhaps I should call you to discuss such, or
perhaps a discussion via email will suffice at this point.
Respectfully,
Byron and Paige Harris
73 Grenville St N.
 
At 09:34 AM 2022-08-17, you wrote:
Byron,
I understand you were in the office last week inquiring about the Easthampton
development project (File S-2022-007).  I can be contacted if there are any questions.
My direct line is 226-909-6305.
Regards,
Coreena Smith 
Senior Planner
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
Direct: 226-909-6305
www.brucecounty.on.ca 
 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees
should be aware that any personal information contained within their communications
may become part of the public record and may be made available through the agenda
process which includes publication on the County’s website. 
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately
and delete all copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation. 
If you feel that this email was commercial in nature and you do not wish to receive
further electronic messages from the County of Bruce, please click on the following link
to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe. Please be advised that this may restrict our ability to send
messages to you in the future. 
From:
Robin Hilborn
To:
Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub
Cc:
Heather Wallace; Byron Harris
Subject:
Submission, S-2022-007 Easthampton — Stormwater Block
Date:
Friday, August 12, 2022 2:10:37 PM
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
To:
Linda Redmond
County of Bruce Planning & Development Department
1243 MacKenzie Road, Port Elgin ON  N0H 2C6
bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca  
 
Re S-2022-007, Launch Property Group, Easthampton Subdivision
 
Please accept the following as our submission for the public record on this
subdivision plan.
 
Our lot is TP PT PKT LOT 1 S CLARENDON; RP 3R3017 PART 2.
 
The rear of this lot (the banks of a creek) is zoned Environmental Hazard, requiring a
permit from Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority for any development.
 
The same creek flows through the Storm Water Management Block.
 
We would like assurances that this development will respect SVCA Environmental
Regulations and in particular that no trees along the creek will be cut down.
 
Ref.: SVCA, Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual,
www.saugeenconservation.ca/en/permits-and-planning/resources/Environmental-
Regulations/DOC EPR Policies 2018.pdf.  3.5.4 Infrastructure, Stormwater Management, Ponds
& Parks, Trails & Recreational Open Spaces.
 
Yours truly, 
Robin Hilborn and Heather Wallace
421 Clarendon St., Southampton ON  NOH 2L0 
Copies: Heather Wallace, Byron Harris
