  
 
Committee Report 
To: Councillor Steve Hammell, Chair and 
 
Members of the Planning and Development Committee 
 
From:  Claire Dodds 
Director of Planning and Development 
 
 
Date: July 13, 2023  
 
 
Re: Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
 
Staff Recommendation: 
That Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2022-007 be approved subject to the Conditions of Draft 
Approval and Draft Plan attached. 
Summary: 
Launch Property Group Inc. (c/o Brooks Turton) is proposing to develop a 2-hectare parcel of 
land in the Town of Saugeen Shores into a residential subdivision consisting of nine single 
detached dwelling lots and one block for future development. 
The application is referred to the Committee for a decision due to concerns raised by 
neighbouring landowners and a resolution by the Town of Saugeen Shores Council to have 
the first part of the Bluewater District School Board condition removed (i.e., originally 
Condition ‘36.a.’ and now Condition ‘37.a.’). 
Alignment with Guiding Principles: 
 
GOOD GROWTH 
To put growth in the 
right locations with the 
right services 
 
AGRICULTURE 
To support our key economies, 
including supporting a thriving 
agriculture community 
 
CONNECTING 
To improve our ability to move 
people, goods, and information 
between communities 
 
HOMES 
To increase the supply  
and mix of homes 
 
BUSINESS 
To create opportunities for a 
diversity of businesses, jobs, 
and employers 
 
COMMUNITIES 
To create wellbeing through access 
to healthy complete communities 
 
HERITAGE 
To identify and manage 
our cultural heritage 
resources 
 
NATURAL LEGACY 
To manage natural resources 
wisely for future generations  
 
Not applicable 
Not aligned 
Aligned 
Strongly aligned 
 
 
The property is in Southampton, east of Grenville Street North and north of High Street.  
This is an infill project in the Settlement Area that makes efficient use of land and 
infrastructure.  Therefore, the plan is aligned with the Good Growth guiding principle. 
The proposed development would increase the supply and mix of homes in Southampton by 
adding nine single detached dwelling lots, a minimum of two additional residential units, 
and a future residential development block.  This is aligned with the Homes guiding 
principle.  
The proposal is also aligned with both the Heritage and Natural Legacy guiding principles as 
potential archaeological resources and natural heritage features/functions have been 
addressed through supporting studies and any outstanding agency comments can be 
addressed through the conditions of draft plan approval. 
On balance, this proposal is aligned with the Guiding Principles and the Vision of a healthy, 
diverse and thriving future.   
Airphoto  
 
 
*Launch Property Group Inc. owns the 2-hectare parcel subject to the current application 
and two adjacent blocks that are 0.67 and 0.46 hectares is size, which are separated from 
the subject lands by unopened road allowances.  These road allowances were created under 
a previous plan of subdivision that was not fully developed and subsequently deemed by the 
Town not to be a subdivision. These lands are not part of the current application, but a 
stormwater management pond is proposed on the northern parcel to service the larger 
area.  
 
Draft Plan (*For Representation Only – Full Draft Plan attached separately) 
 
Image of the Site looking North along Grenville St N. 
 
 
 
Planning Analysis: 
The following section provides an overview of the planning considerations that were 
factored into the staff recommendation for this application, including relevant agency 
comments (attached), public comments (attached) and planning policy sections.  
Planning Context 
The property is located on the east side of Southampton within the Settlement Area.  The 
lands are designated Primary Urban Communities in the Bruce County Official Plan and 
Residential in the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan with a small portion also designated 
Environmental Hazard. The goals and objectives of both the County and local Official Plans 
direct much of the future growth to Primary Urban Communities, such as Southampton. 
Directing new development and intensification to Settlement Areas is supported to ensure 
the wise use of land and resources, to promote efficient development patterns, protect 
resources (e.g., natural and agricultural), ensure effective use of infrastructure and public 
facilities, and minimize unnecessary public expenditures.  This proposal represents an 
opportunity to develop an underutilized property in Southampton and supports the efficient 
use of infrastructure through connection to existing municipal services and roads. 
The lands are currently zoned Residential First Density with a Holding provision (R1-h).  The 
Holding provision requires the applicant to enter into a Subdivision Agreement with the 
Town of Saugeen Shores prior to its removal.  The Holding will have to be lifted prior to 
development.  
A small portion of the site is also zoned Environmental Protection (EP).  The EP zone will 
remain unchanged. 
Density 
The Draft Plan of Subdivision includes nine single detached dwelling lots and one block for 
future residential development.  The nine single detached dwelling lots are considered a 
low-density housing format.  The proposed density of the nine lots is 16 units per gross 
hectare1, which exceeds the 15 units per gross hectare required in the County and local 
Official Plans for subdivisions on full services.  
The County and Town Official Plan policies target 30% of new housing to be medium density 
or higher unless justification is provided otherwise.  The applicant was asked to consider a 
higher density form of development, as opposed to the nine single detached dwelling lots 
shown.  The applicant’s consulting engineer advised against anything more than two 
residential units per lot as this would require the previously serviced Grenville Street to be 
dug up in order to install additional servicing connections and to realign the existing ones.  
Instead, the applicant has committed to building an additional residential unit within at 
least two of the single detached dwellings.  The applicant has also agreed to construct the 
first model home unit with an additional residential unit to show prospective purchasers that 
it is a viable option.  Town staff are satisfied with this approach and are recommending a 
                                         
1 This calculation includes one-half of the Greenville Street road allowance along the frontage of the nine lots.  
Excluding the road allowance, the density of the nine lots is 21 units per hectare. 
condition of draft approval which compels the construction of at least two additional 
residential units within Lots 1 to 9.  Staff advise that a similar condition has been 
implemented in other subdivisions in Saugeen Shores. 
The applicant will also be constructing higher density housing on the remaining lands in the 
form of townhouse units. A Conceptual Layout Plan is currently in progress (see two 
potential conceptual plans attached to this report).  Discussions with the adjacent property 
owner to the east are also planned to revise the current road alignment and lot layout 
between the two land holdings.  
The overall density of the entire development will increase when the medium density 
component of the next phase of the project is brought forward for consideration.  At 
present, the proposal meets the minimum density requirements of both the County and 
Town Official Plans.   
Stormwater Management 
In order to control flooding, ponding, erosion and sedimentation and to provide protection of 
water resources and natural habitat dependent upon watercourses and other water bodies 
for their existence, the County and local Official Plans require that stormwater management 
strategies be provided for new development in Settlement Areas. 
The Stormwater Management Report submitted in support of the original application noted 
that the front half of the lots would outlet to either the High Street outlet or a catch basin 
maintenance hole on the east side of Grenville Street North. The back half of Lots 1 to 9 and 
the remaining onsite lands would drain overland into an interceptor ditch on Block 10. Water 
within this facility would outlet to the catch basin on the east side of Grenville Street North, 
north of Lot 9. An easement for the stormwater management facility and the pipe leading to 
the catch basin on Grenville Street North would be conveyed to the Town and such easement 
is shown on the Draft Plan.   
The Stormwater Management Report was subsequently revised to address comments from 
the Town’s consulting engineer and the Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA).  The 
most notable change to the proposal was the addition of a stormwater management pond on 
the lands owned by the applicant to the north in addition to the interceptor ditch originally 
proposed on Block 10.  The proposed stormwater management pond is located where the 
facility for the entire development was originally planned (see attached General Plan).  The 
stormwater management pond is proposed next to a watercourse but outside the floodplain 
of that watercourse.  A vegetated buffer will be maintained between the facility and the 
watercourse, which also addresses some of the public comments on the proposal.   
Town staff are generally satisfied with the revised proposal.  Town staff have advised that 
the Plan of Subdivision application can proceed and that any outstanding issues noted by the 
Town’s consultant can be addressed following Draft Approval.  SVCA staff are also satisfied 
with the revised proposal. 
Natural Heritage 
The natural heritage features identified as potentially affecting the subject property include 
the habitat of endangered species (Black Ash) and fish habitat. The Bruce County Official 
Plan and Saugeen Shores Official Plan generally prohibit development within the natural 
heritage features and their adjacent lands unless it has been demonstrated that there will 
be no negative impacts to the natural features or the ecological functions.  
The Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) Environment Office and the Historic Saugeen Métis (HSM) 
Lands, Resources and Consultation Department also identified the cultural significance of 
Black Ash to Indigenous communities and the need to mitigate impacts to fish habitat.   
The application was supported by an Environmental Impact Study (EIS). The EIS recommends 
that no lot development occur within the identified Black Ash vegetation community, plus a 
five-metre buffer, until further direction is provided from the Province on this species.  The 
Draft Plan has implemented this recommendation by keeping the proposed nine lots outside 
the Black Ash protection area.   
With respect to fish habitat, the EIS recommends a 15-metre vegetated buffer from the top 
of bank to ensure no negative impacts to the watercourse to the north.  Development within 
Lots 1 to 9 is set back 244 metres from the watercourse.  The proposed stormwater 
management pond is also located outside the 15-metre buffer.  Further, stormwater quality 
and quantity controls will be implemented to mitigate potential impacts to fish habitat on-
site and downstream of the proposal. 
The recommendations and best management practices outlined in the EIS will need to be 
implemented to the satisfaction of the County in consultation with the SON Environment 
Office. The SON Environment Office has also requested further consultation prior to the 
preparation of any development plans for the future development block or the other 
adjacent lands owned by the applicant.  Conditions of draft approval have been included to 
reflect this request. 
Natural Hazards 
Provincial and Official Plan policies direct development to areas outside of hazardous lands 
(flooding hazards, erosion hazards, dynamic beach hazards), and hazardous sites (organic 
soils, leda clay, unstable bedrock).  A portion of the subject lands are impacted by flooding 
associated with a watercourse in the north and the High Street ditch in the south.  
The proposed stormwater management pond is sited outside the Regional Floodplain of the 
watercourse to the north.   
The applicant’s engineering consultant also revised the proposal to address comments from 
the SVCA relating to the floodplain and flood spill area on the southern portion of the site.  
The consultant is proposing to construct a berm to contain the spill within the floodplain of 
the watercourse, and to do a cut / fill balance on the corner of Lot 1 to raise that area 
above the flood elevation (see attached General Plan).   
All structures and facilities within the development will be outside the hazardous lands and 
all basements will be elevated so that all openings are above the Regional Floodline 
Elevation.  Notes requiring waterproofing have been added to the engineering drawings.   
SVCA staff note that the response is acceptable.  Additional detailed comments relating to 
lot grading and drainage can be addressed through the conditions of draft approval. 
Archaeology 
A Stage 1 and 2 Archaeological Assessment was conducted on the site. No significant cultural 
materials were found, and the archaeologist concluded that the property should be cleared 
of archaeological concerns. The Ministry of Tourism, Culture and Sport has entered the Stage 
1 and 2 Archaeological Assessment into the Ontario Public Register of Archaeological 
Reports. The SON Environment Office originally requested archaeological monitoring in the 
area of two historic structures identified through the assessment.  A condition of draft 
approval was included to reflect this request, but was subsequently revised to require the 
applicant to consult with SON should archaeological resources be encountered on the site.   
Conditions of Draft Approval 
Council at the Town of Saugeen Shores held a public meeting on December 19, 2022, and 
passed a motion on June 19, 2023 (attached) recommending that Bruce County approve the 
Draft Plan of Subdivision in accordance with the Draft Plan and Conditions (attached) except 
for Condition ‘36.a.’ (now Condition ‘37.a.’) from the Bluewater District School Board.  
Council requested that this condition related to student accommodation in temporary 
facilities and directing students to alternative attendance boundaries be removed.  Council 
made similar comments on previous subdivision files in the Town.   
The County is the Approval Authority for Draft Plans of Subdivision.  The County seeks 
comments from the local Municipality before making a decision to approve or refuse a Draft 
Plan of Subdivision.  The County Planning and Development Committee removed the same 
Bluewater District School Board condition from two previous applications in the Town of 
Saugeen Shores in September 2022.   
Condition ‘37.a.’ is included in the attached Conditions of Draft Approval for the subject 
file.  Staff consider the condition to be a reasonable request and are seeking direction from 
the Committee on this matter.   
Financial/Staffing/Legal/IT Considerations: 
Potential Appeal to the Ontario Land Tribunal. 
 
Report Author: 
Coreena Smith 
Senior Development Planner 
 
Departmental Approval: 
Claire Dodds  
Director of Planning and Development 
 
Approved for Submission: 
Derrick Thomson 
Chief Administrative Officer 
 
Appendices 
 County Official Plan Map 
 Local Official Plan Map 
 Local Zoning Map 
 List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Agency Comments  
 Public Notice 
 Public Comments  
 Town of Saugeen Shores Meeting Minutes (Public Meeting - December 19, 2022) 
 Town of Saugeen Shores Resolution 
 General Plan 
 Conceptual Phased Development Plans 
 Decision Sheet 
 Conditions of Draft Approval 
 Draft Plan of Subdivision 
 
County Official Plan Map (Designated Primary Urban Communities) 
 
Local Official Plan Map (Designated Residential and Environmental Hazard) 
 
Local Zoning Map (Zoned R1-h - Residential First Density - Holding Provision, EP - 
Environmental Protection and R1 - Residential First Density) 
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
Original Submission 
 Planning Justification Report – Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc., April 
2022 
 Archaeological Assessment (Stage 1 & 2) – Scarlett Janusas Archaeology Inc., July 2020 
 Archaeological Letter – Ministry of Heritage, Sports, Tourism, Culture Industries, July 
2020 
 Stormwater Management Report – GM Blue Plan Engineering, February 2022 
 Natural Heritage Environmental Impact Study – AWS Environmental Consulting Inc., 
February 2022 
 
Additional Information 
 Response Letter to SVCA – GM Blue Plan Engineering, March 2023 
 SVCA Response to GM Blue Plan Engineering – SVCA, March 2023 
 Response Correspondence to RJ Burnside – GM Blue Plan Engineering, April 2023 
 Revised Stormwater Management Report – GM Blue Plan Engineering, April 2023 
 Revised Engineering Drawings – GM Blue Plan Engineering, April 2023 
 Conceptual Phases Development Plans – GM Blue Plan Engineering, April 2023 
 Submission Letter – Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc., April 2023 
 Draft Plan – GM Blue Plan Engineering, April 2023 and signed May 2023 
 
 
