1078 Bruce Road 12 | P.O. Box 150 | Formosa | ON | Canada | N0G 1W0 
519-364-1255 | publicinfo@svca.on.ca | www.saugeenconservation.ca
SENT ELECTRONICALLY ONLY: lredmond@brucecounty.on.ca and bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca 
November 2, 2022 
County of Bruce Planning & Development Department 
1243 Mackenzie Road 
Port Elgin, Ontario N0H 2C6 
ATTENTION: 
Linda Redmond, Planner 
Dear Ms. Redmond, 
RE:  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton)
Unassigned civic address 
Roll No.: 411048000400601 
Lots 1 to 32 Plan M42 
Geographic Town of Southampton 
Town of Saugeen Shores ______________________________ 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted application as per our 
delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified 
in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation). SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our Memorandum of Agreement 
(MOA), dated September 2019, with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, and 
water resources; and the application have also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the 
Planning Act as per our CA Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual, 
amended October 16, 2018. 
Purpose 
A Draft Plan of Subdivision application has been submitted to create nine single detached dwelling lots and one 
large block for stormwater management and future development purposes. 
SVCA staff have received and reviewed the following documents submitted with the application: 
1.
Planning Justification Report prepared by Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc., dated April
18, 2022;
2.
Natural Heritage Environmental Impact Study prepared by AWS, dated February 2022;
3.
Stormwater Management Report prepared by GM BluePlan, dated February 2022; and
4.
Subdivision drawings: DP2, 1, 2, PP-1, PP-2, and 3; all dated June 16, 2020, all revision 1 dated February
2022, prepared by GM BluePlan.
Agency Comments
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
November 2, 2022 
Page 2 of 6 
 
Recommendation 
 
The application is generally acceptable in principle, however many of SVCA staff concerns noted as part of the 
SVCA pre-submission consultation comments dated June 18, 2020 do not appear to have been have addressed. 
Specifically concerns related to natural hazards-flooding have not been addressed. Therefore, SVCA staff 
recommend deferral of a decision at this time until SVCA concerns are addressed.   
 
Background 
 
As part of the pre-submission consultation process for a future subdivision proposal, the SVCA was contacted by 
Ron Davidson Planning Consultant (agent for the owner: Launch Property Group Inc. c/o Brooks Turton) on May 
26, 2020. SVCA conducted a site inspection of the property on June 11, 2020, and provided pre-submission 
consultation comments dated June 18, 2020. The SVCA comments outlined SVCA requirements and 
recommendations for the proposed development.  
 
Delegated Responsibility and Advisory Comments  
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application through our delegated responsibility from the Province to represent 
provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 
2020).  We have also reviewed the application through our responsibilities as a service provider to the County 
of Bruce in that we provide expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act applications with regards to 
natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources as set out in the PPS, 2020, County Official Plan (OP) 
and/or local official plans. Comments below only include features/technical requirements affecting the 
property.   
 
Natural Hazards: 
 
Floodplain mapping exists for the community of Southampton. SVCA’s floodplain mapping shows the very 
northern and very southern portions of property are affected by the Hurricane Hazel Flood Event (HHFE/regional 
floodplain).  SVCA’s mapping indicates the HHFE floodplain on the north section of property is generally confined 
within the stream valley, whereas the floodplain from the High Street ditch spills over onto the southern portion 
of the property. The Town of Saugeen Shores Zoning By-law and the Town’s Official Plan (OP) ‘environmental 
hazard’ mapping appears to match the flood hazard mapping as originally plotted by the SVCA. The spill area 
shown on SVCA’s mapping is also depicted in the Town of Saugeen Shores Zoning By-law as a “Spills Area” 
overlay. 
 
A floodplain spill area exists where flood waters are not physically contained within the valley or stream corridor 
and exit into surrounding lands. Consequently, the limit and depth of flooding of a spill area are difficult to 
determine. Flood spill areas occur naturally or can occur as a result of downstream barriers to the passage of 
flood flows such as undersized bridges or culverts. 
 
In addition to the above, SVCA staff observed localized flooding on the property, on the day of SVCA staff’s site 
visit there was approximately 3 inches to 6 inches of standing water in the central portion of the property. The 
cause of flooding likely resulted from of the previous night’s heavy rain event. Consequently, proposed 
development must consider the localized flooding issues that affect the property when developing a lot/grading 
plan. 
 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
November 2, 2022 
Page 3 of 6 
 
The following are a summary of Provincial, Bruce County, and Town of Saugeen Shores natural hazard policies 
that apply to the application.  
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 3.1 of the PPS, 2020 states in part that development shall generally be directed to areas outside of: b) 
hazardous lands adjacent to river, stream and small inland lake systems which are impacted by flooding and 
erosion hazards; and c) hazardous sites. Based on the plans submitted with the application, a small part of 
proposed lot 1 appears to be located within the flood hazard. Similarly, the proposed future stormwater 
management block for Phase 2 appears to be located almost entirely within the flood hazard. Therefore, it is the 
opinion of SVCA staff that the application does not appear to be consistent with Section 3.1. of the PPS, 2020. 
 
County of Bruce OP Policies  
 
Section 5.8. and more specifically section 5.8.5.2 of the County of Bruce OP generally directs development to be 
located outside of Hazardous Land Area. It is the opinion of SVCA staff that the application does not appear to 
be consistent with the natural hazard policies of the Bruce County OP.  
 
Town of Saugeen Shores OP Policies  
 
Section 3.18.4.1.1 of the Saugeen Shores OP states in part that no buildings or structures shall be permitted in 
the Environmental Hazard designation except buildings or structures intended for flood or erosion control, public 
utilities, or accessory structures to permitted passive outdoor recreational uses. 
 
However, Section 3.18.4.5 (Spill Area Policy) contains policies for development proposed on lands not considered 
“Hazard Lands” but identified on zoning schedules as being within 50 metres of a Spill Weir. These areas are 
considered to be within the Spill Area Policy of the SVCA, and shall be subject to the policies of the SVCA in this 
regard; and that, the SVCA Spill Area Policy applies to all lands within 50 metres measured horizontally, of a Spill 
Weir. New developments may be permitted within a spill area provided that they meet all applicable policies of 
the OP, and are floodproofed to the elevation of the HHFES floodplain.  
 
Section 3.18.4.6 - “Development in Shallow Flood Areas” states, in general, that where new development is 
proposed in generally the northeast part of the Town despite the policies throughout this Plan which permit 
development to occur, property owners are advised that there is the potential for flooding in areas not 
designated “Environmental Hazard” and not within the Spill Area Policy. While the flooding may be infrequent 
and shallow, the extent of the flooding cannot be shown on the mapping. It is advised that all new development 
should consider the possibility of flooding and property owners should design buildings accordingly. Design 
considerations might include elevating the ground floor level well above surrounding ground levels; elevating 
building openings; and elevating or deleting basements. It is SVCA staff’s opinion, this policy would apply to the 
property based on the localized flooding observed on the property and that is common in the area. 
 
It is the opinion of the SVCA that development and site alteration must be located outside the HHFES floodplain 
identified as ‘Environmental Hazard’ on the Town’s Zoning By-law and OP Schedules. However, residential 
development may be permitted within the 50 metre Spill Area subject to floodproofing, safe ingress/egress,  
where there is no impact on the environment, and where the existing flood hazard is not aggravated.  
Additionally, because the property is affected by the regulatory floodplain and localized shallow flooding, lot 
grading plans for development would need to demonstrate no development within the regulatory floodplain 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
November 2, 2022 
Page 4 of 6 
 
limit, the ground floor and minimum opening elevation are above the regulatory floodplain elevation and well 
above surrounding ground levels; and further that the residences do not have basements or that the basements 
are elevated. This is further emphasised as the Planning Justification Report noted that the dwellings proposed 
as part of the application may have basements which may contain accessory dwelling units.  
 
Proposed culverts crossing the High Street ditch will need to demonstrate no impacts to the regulatory floodplain 
elevation upstream of the culvert. 
 
Additionally, if not already completed, SVCA staff would recommend a geotechnical investigation to determine 
the groundwater elevations, and that no basements, if proposed, be permitted below the high groundwater 
table. 
 
Natural Heritage: 
 
As part of SVCA pre-submission correspondence, SVCA noted natural heritage features affecting the property. A 
Natural Heritage Environmental Impact Study dated February 2022, was prepared by AWS. Provided the 
mitigation measures (EIS section 16) are followed, it is the opinion of SVCA staff that the application appears to 
be consistent with Section 2.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement, and the natural heritage policies of the Bruce 
County OP, and the Town of Saugeen Shores OP.   
 
Statutory Comments 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation). This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, enables 
SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland lake shorelines, 
watercourses, hazardous lands and wetlands.  Subject to the CA Act, development taking place on or adjacent 
to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control of flooding, erosion, dynamic 
beaches, pollution or the conservation of land are not affected. SVCA also regulates the alteration to or 
interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
 
The northerly and southerly areas of the property, are within the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area associated 
with Ontario Regulation 169/06. As such, development and/or site alteration within the SVCA Approximate 
Regulated Area may require permission from SVCA, prior to carrying out the work. 
 
“Development” as defined under the Conservation Authorities Act means: 
 
a) the construction, reconstruction, erection or placing of a building or structure of any kind; 
b) any change to a building or structure that would have the effect of altering the use or potential use 
of the building or structure, increasing the size of the building or structure or increasing the number 
of dwelling units in the building or structure; 
c) site grading; or, 
d) the temporary or permanent placing, dumping or removal of any material, originating on the site or 
elsewhere. 
And; 
 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
November 2, 2022 
Page 5 of 6 
 
“Alteration” as per Section 5 of Ontario Regulation 169/06 generally includes the straightening, diverting 
or interference in any way with a rive, creek, stream or watercourse, or the changing or interfering in 
any way with a wetland. 
 
To determine where the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area is located associated with our Regulation on the 
property, please refer to the SVCA’s online mapping program, available via the SVCA’s website at 
http://eprweb.svca.on.ca. For the property, the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area includes the natural hazard 
feature being the HHFES floodplain and an offset distance outwards from the floodplain.  
 
SVCA Permission for Development or Alteration 
 
If development or alteration including construction, reconstruction, conversion, grading, filling or excavation, is 
proposed within the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area on the property, the SVCA should be contacted, as 
permission (SVCA permit) will be required. Based on the plans submitted with the application, it appears that 
grading would occur within the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area and so a permit from the SVCA will be 
required.  
 
Regulatory Floodplain/Spill Area 
 
In general, SVCA’s policies do not support development within the regulatory floodplain limit. However, 
development within the spill area may be permitted subject to conditions noted below.  
 
SVCA does not regulate development in spill areas in the same manner as development within floodplain areas, 
as spill areas are not readily defined and the storage/flow that occurs in spill areas is not considered as part of 
the natural floodplain, therefore preservation of flood storage in a spill area is not required. Where spill areas 
can be identified, SVCA may permit development provided appropriate flood hazard mitigation can be 
established. The SVCA Regulated area of a spill areas is within 50 metres of the indicated “Spill Area” on 
floodplain mapping.  
 
New development will be permitted within 50 metres of a spill area designated (in the geographic Town of 
Southampton only) and approved on engineered floodplain mapping, provided the following conditions are met:  
 
a)  the building or structure is floodproofed to the elevation of the Regulatory Flood;  
b)  grading is kept to a minimum;  
c)  structural engineering will be required should the lowest floor elevation be below the flood elevation;  
d)  safe access is achievable where feasible;  
e)  all habitable floor space and electrical, mechanical, and heating services are above the elevation of the   
Regulatory Flood; and  
f) no basement is proposed, or the basement is floodproofed to the elevation of the Regulatory Flood. This 
may include structural engineering to ensure hydrostatic uplift and side pressure, velocity, impact 
loading, and waterproof design are addressed.  
 
Alteration to a Watercourse 
 
As part of a proposed Phase 2 for development, if alteration to the northerly watercourse is proposed for 
stormwater management facility location and/or outlet, a SVCA permit will be required and may be permitted, 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development  
S-2022-007 (Easthampton) 
November 2, 2022 
Page 6 of 6 
 
provided plans demonstrate the proposed will not have an impact on the control of flooding (i.e. no impact to 
the HHFES floodplain), erosion, pollution, or the conservation of land. 
 
Summary 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application in accordance with our MOA with the County of Bruce, and as per our 
mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our regulatory role under the Conservation 
Authorities Act. 
 
The application is generally acceptable in principle, however many of SVCA staff concerns noted as part of the 
SVCA pre-submission consultation comments dated June 18, 2020 do not appear to have been have addressed. 
Therefore, SVCA staff recommend deferral of a decision at this time until SVCA concerns are addressed.   
 
Given the above comments, it is the opinion of the SVCA staff that: 
1) Consistency with Section 3.1, Natural Hazard policies of the PPS, 2020 has not been demonstrated; 
2) Consistency with Section 2.1, Natural Heritage policies of the PPS, 2020 has been demonstrated; and 
3) Consistency with local planning policies for natural hazards and natural heritage has not been 
demonstrated. 
 
Please inform this office of any decision made by the Town of Saugeen Shores and/or the County of Bruce with 
regard to the application. We respectfully request to receive a copy of the decisions and notices of any appeals 
filed. Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Michael Oberle 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation  
MO/ 
Enclosure: SVCA comments dated June 18, 2020 
cc:  
Dana Mitchell, Planning Department Administration, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
Jay Pausner, Development Services Supervisor, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
Josh Planz, CBO, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
Cheryl Grace, SVCA Member representing the Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
Dave Myette, SVCA Member representing the Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 Signature of Michael Oberle
 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-367-3040, Fax 519-367-3041, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.svca.on.ca 
 
 
 
 
Watershed Member Municipalities 
Municipality of Arran-Elderslie, Municipality of Brockton, Township of Chatsworth, Municipality of Grey Highlands, 
Town of Hanover, Township of Howick, Municipality of Morris-Turnberry, Municipality of South Bruce, 
Township of Huron-Kinloss, Municipality of Kincardine, Town of Minto, Township of Wellington North, 
Town of Saugeen Shores, Township of Southgate, Municipality of West Grey 
 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY (brooks@launchpropertygroup.com)  
  
June 18, 2020 
  
Brooks Turton (SENT VIA EMAIL ONLY) 
 
Dear Mr. Turton:  
  
RE:  
 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
 
 
Roll No. 411048000400601 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan M42 
Geographic Town of Southampton 
Town of Saugeen Shores______________________________________________________  
 
As requested, Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted property for 
proposed multi-residential use/subdivision.  Our Planning Act and SVCA application pre-submission comments 
are in accordance with our delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests 
regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a 
regulatory authority under Ontario Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and 
Alterations to Shorelines and Watercourses Regulation).  SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our 
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, 
and water resources; and your proposal has also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the 
Planning Act as per our CA Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual, 
amended October 16, 2018. 
 
As per your request, SVCA staff visited the property on June 11, 2020 to review site conditions and based on 
our review, development on the site may be feasible subject to conditions detailed in the report below.   
 
The following report is organized into two general sections, where much of the report focuses on Provincial, 
County/Municipal, and SVCA Policy applicable to your proposed development or property.  At the end of the 
report you will find a summary that clarifies how these polices will impact your development specifically. 
 
SITE CHARACTERISTICS 
 
The subject property is located on the north-east corner of High Street and Grenville Street in the Town of 
Southampton and is approximately 4 ha in size.  The property features a young successional woodlot on the 
south half of the lot comprised predominantly of cedar trees mixed with ash and is 2.7 ha in size.  There is as 
section of this woodlot where the cedar trees are dense with little to no understory. The soils on the property 
appear to be comprised of clay/silt with a mix of sand and are poorly drained.  SVCA staff are of the opinion 
there is a high groundwater table across the site.  On the day of staff’s site visit there were pockets of standing 
water across the property, with a larger ponded area that presents as a wide swale/drainage feature.  This 
swale feature was comprised of both open meadow and a dead ash tree stand.  On the most northern portion 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 2 of 9 
 
of the property is a section of watercourse and stream valley that traverses another mixed cedar/deciduous 
woodlot of .97 ha. 
 
The lands directly east to the subject property have cleared a portion of the cedar woodlot and have seeded 
the area with what appears to be soy.  The approximate cleared area is illustrated on the attached SVCA map. 
 
PLANNING ACT APPLICATION PRE-SUBMISSION CONSULTATION  
 
The following pre-submission consultation comments are offered by SVCA staff in advance of any submission of 
a formal Planning Act Application (i.e. zoning by-law amendment, plan of subdivision etc.) to the County of 
Bruce or the Town of Saugeen Shores.  Please note, SVCA staff provide advice and recommendations to the 
County/Town regarding natural hazard and natural heritage matters; however, the SVCA is not the Approval 
Authority for Planning Act Applications.  We recommend you contact the Town and/or County for information 
pertaining to the Planning Act process.       
 
ZONING AND OFFICIAL PLAN  
 
Administration and final interpretation of the Zoning By-law and Official Plan are the responsibility of the Town 
and/or County.  We recommend you contact the Town of Saugeen Shores and/or the County of Bruce to 
confirm the zoning status and/or designation of the property, and for all other items relating to the Zoning By-
law and Official Plan.   
 
DELEGATED RESPONSIBILITY AND ADVISORY COMMENTS 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the proposed through our delegated responsibility from the Province to represent 
provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement 
(PPS, 2014).  We have also reviewed the proposed through our responsibilities as a service provider to the 
County of Bruce in that we provide expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act applications with 
regards to natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources as set out in the PPS 2014, County Official 
Plan and/or local official plans.  Comments below only include features/technical requirements affecting the 
property.   
 
Natural Hazards: 
 
SVCA’s floodplain mapping shows portions of property are affected by the Hurricane Hazel Flood Event (HHFE) 
on the north and south sections of property.  SVCA’s mapping indicates the HHFE floodplain on the north 
section of property is generally confined within the stream valley, whereas the floodplain from the High Street 
ditch spills over onto the southern portion of the property.  The Town of Saugeen Shores Zoning By-law and the 
Town’s Official Plan (OP) ‘environmental hazard’ mapping appears to match the hazard mapping originally 
plotted by SVCA.  The spill area shown on SVCA’s mapping is also depicted in the Town of Saugeen Shores 
Zoning By-law as a “Spills Area” overlay. 
 
A floodplain Spill Area exists where flood waters are not physically contained within the valley or stream 
corridor and exit into surrounding lands. Consequently, the limit and depth of flooding are difficult to 
determine. Flood Spill Areas occur naturally or can occur as a result of downstream barriers to the passage of 
flood flows such as undersized bridges or culverts. 
 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 3 of 9 
 
In addition to the above, and as mentioned previously, SVCA staff observed localized flooding on the property, 
specifically in the location noted on the attached map.  On the day of staff’s site visit there was approximately 
3 inches to 6 inches of standing water at this location, which likely resulted from of the previous night’s heavy 
rain event.    Consequently, future development must consider the localized flooding issues that affect the 
property when developing a lot/grading plan. 
 
Please note the HHFE will herein be referred to as the “regulatory floodplain”. 
 
The following are a summary of Provincial, County, and Town natural hazard policies that apply based on your 
current proposal. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) Natural Hazard Policies– Section 3.1  
 
Section 3.1 of the PPS states, in general, that development shall be directed, in accordance with guidance 
developed by the Province (as amended from time to time), to areas outside of hazardous lands adjacent to 
river, stream and small inland lake systems which are impacted by flooding hazards and hazardous sites.  
Institutional uses, essential emergency services, and hazardous substances are not permitted in hazardous 
lands or hazardous sites.  The PPS, Sections 3.1.4 and 3.1.6 allow for development in flooding hazards where 
there are Special Policy Areas (SPA) or Two-Zone floodplain policies; subject to floodproofing, safe 
ingress/egress, where there is no impact on the environment, and where the existing hazard is not 
aggravated. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that Section 5.8.5.2 of the County OP does not permit buildings or 
structures, nor the placing or removal of fill of any kind whether originating on the site or elsewhere, nor 
land grading shall be permitted in the Hazard Land Area except where such buildings, structures or fill are 
intended for flood or erosion control or maintenance and management of the natural environment, 
recreational purposes or non-residential accessory farm buildings (e.g. a sugar shack), and are approved by 
the Municipal Council, the Conservation Authority where they exist, and the Chief Building Official.  
However, Section 5.8.5.11 of the OP does permit development in floodplains where a Two-Zone or Special 
SPA approach is implemented in County OP or in Local Official Plans, and where they are consistent with 
Provincial floodplain policy. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
Section 3.18.4.1.1 of the Town’s OP, in the opinion of SVCA, states that no buildings or structures shall be 
permitted in the Environmental Hazard designation except buildings or structures intended for flood or 
erosion control, public utilities, or accessory structures to permitted passive outdoor recreational uses. 
 
However, Section 3.18.4.5 (Spill Area Policy) of the Town’s OP contains policies for development proposed 
on lands not considered “Hazard Lands” but identified on zoning schedules as being within 50 metres of a 
Spill Weir.  These areas are considered to be within the Spill Area Policy of the SVCA and shall be subject to 
the policies of the Authority in this regard; and that, the SVCA Spill Area Policy applies to all lands within 50 
metres measured horizontally, of a Spill Weir. New developments may be permitted within a Spill Area 
provided that they meet all applicable policies of the Town’s OP, and are floodproofed to the elevation of 
the Hurricane Hazel Flood Event Standard Flood Plain (H.H.F.E.S).  Furthermore, Section 3.18.4.5.4 requires 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 4 of 9 
 
written permission of the SVCA prior to any construction within the Spill Area. In each case an application, 
describing the proposed construction, must be made to the Authority for its review and consideration. 
 
SVCA staff further notes, that Section 3.18.4.6 - “Development in Shallow Flood Areas” states, in general, 
that where new development is proposed in generally the northeast part of the Town despite the policies 
throughout this Plan which permit development to occur, property owners are advised there is the 
potential for flooding in areas not designated “Environmental Hazard” and not within the Spill Area Policy. 
While the flooding may be infrequent and shallow, the extent of the flooding cannot be shown on the 
mapping. It is advised that all new development should consider the possibility of flooding and property 
owners should design buildings accordingly. Design considerations might include elevating the ground floor 
level well above surrounding ground levels; elevating building openings; and elevating or deleting 
basements.  It is SVCA staff’s opinion, this policy would apply to the property based on the localized flooding 
observed on the property and that is common in the area. 
 
Regarding your proposed residential development on the subject property, it is SVCA staff’s opinion new 
development and site alteration must be located outside the regulatory floodplain identified as ‘Environmental 
Hazard’ on the Town’s Zoning By-law and OP Schedules, and attached SVCA map.  However, residential 
development may be permitted within the 50 metre Spill Area subject to floodproofing, safe ingress/egress,  
where there is no impact on the environment, and where the existing flood hazard is not aggravated.  
Additionally, because the property is affected by the regulatory floodplain and localized shallow flooding, lot 
grading plans for development would need to demonstrate no development within the regulatory floodplain 
limit, the ground floor and minimum opening elevation are above the regulatory floodplain elevation and well 
above surrounding ground levels; and further that the residences do not have basements or that the 
basements are elevated.  Additionally, access to the development cannot be located within the ‘environmental 
hazard’ area/regulatory floodplain.  Proposed culverts crossing the High Street Ditch will need to demonstrate 
no impacts to the regulatory floodplain elevation upstream of the culvert. 
 
Additionally, SVCA staff would recommend a geotechnical investigation to determine the groundwater 
elevations and that no basements, if proposed be permitted below the high groundwater table. 
 
Natural Heritage: 
 
In the opinion of SVCA staff, the subject property features Fish Habitat, and potentially Habitat of Endangered 
Species or Threatened Species. 
 
The following are a summary of Provincial, County, and Town natural heritage policies that apply based on your 
current proposal. 
 
Fish Habitat: 
 
SVCA staff consider the watercourse on the northwest portion of the property to be fish habitat.   
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) – Natural Heritage Policies – Section 2.1 
 
Section 2.1.6 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in fish habitat 
except in accordance with provincial and federal requirements; and further, Section 2.1.8 states that 
development and site alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to fish habitat unless the 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 5 of 9 
 
ecological function of the adjacent lands has been evaluated and it has been demonstrated that there will 
be no negative impacts on the natural features or on their ecological functions. 
 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA’s interpretation that Section 4.3.2.1 of the County OP does not permit development within 30 
metres of the banks of a cold water stream or 15 metres of a warm water stream. Landowners are 
encouraged to forest the area within 30 metres of any stream to maintain and improve fish habitat, 
ecological function of the stream, and to increase natural connections.  Additionally, Section 4.3.3.1 of the 
County OP requires development proponents to prepare an environmental impact study (EIS) for any 
proposal that is within 120 metres adjacent to fish habitat. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
Section 2.6.5.1 of the Towns OP, in the opinion of SVCA, states that where development is proposed in a 
water feature or adjacent to a water feature that has the potential to contain fish habitat, an E.I.S. shall be 
required 
 
Habitat of Endangered Species and Threatened Species: 
 
It is the opinion of SVCA staff that the subject property may feature habitat of endangered and threatened 
species. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2014) – Natural Heritage Policies – Section 2.1 
 
Section 2.1.7 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in habitat of 
endangered species and threatened species, except in accordance with provincial and federal requirements.  
It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure the endangered species and threatened species policy 
referred to in the PPS is appropriately addressed. Please contact the Ministry of Environment, Conservation 
and Parks (MECP) for information on how to address this policy. MECP inquiries can be sent via email to: 
SAROntario@ontario.ca. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is the interpretation of SVCA staff that Section 4.3.2.7.3 of the County OP does not support development 
within the habitat of endangered/threatened species except for infrastructure permitted by the Provincial 
Policy Statement within significant portions of the habitat of threatened and endangered species. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that Section 2.6.3.2 of the Town’s OP does not permit development or site 
alteration in habitat of endangered or threatened species or species. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 6 of 9 
 
Environmental Impact Study (EIS): 
 
Section 6.27.4.5 of the Town of Saugeen Shores OP states that the Town may waive the requirement for the 
preparation of an EIS, upon recommendation of the SVCA, if the proposal is of such a minor nature or site 
conditions are such that the preparation of an EIS would serve no useful purpose for the protection of the 
natural heritage features.  Similarly, the County of Bruce OP, Section 4.3.3.8, allows for the waiving of an EIS on 
the opinion of outside independent advice. 
 
It is the opinion of SVCA staff that an EIS to address the impacts of development on adjacent lands to fish 
habitat could be waived, provided there is no development or vegetation clearing within 30 metres to the 
watercourse on the northwest section of property.   During construction, the potential impacts to fish habitat 
can be further mitigated with standard sediment and erosion control measures.  Please note, SVCA’s 
recommendation to waive the EIS does not include the requirements by the MECP to address potential habitat 
for endangered and threatened species.  Additionally, if stormwater is proposed to outlet to this watercourse, 
or if development and vegetation clearing is proposed within 30 metres to the watercourse, then SVCA staff 
may recommend a scoped EIS to address fish habitat. 
 
Stormwater Management 
 
If the outlet for a proposed stormwater management (SWM) facility is to the northerly watercourse or SVCA 
regulated area (i.e. floodplain), SVCA will be required to review the SWM report and plans in accordance with 
our MOA with the County of Bruce.  Attached is SVCA’s SWM Guidelines for your information.   
 
STATUTORY COMMENTS 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation).  This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, 
enables SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland lake 
shorelines, watercourses, hazardous lands, and wetlands.  Subject to the CA Act, development taking place 
on or adjacent to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control of flooding, 
erosion, dynamic beaches, pollution, or the conservation of land are not affected.  SVCA also regulates the 
alteration to or interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
 
Portions of the subject property are within the SVCA’s Regulated Area associated with Ontario Regulation 
169/06.   The regulated areas on the property are the watercourse and stream valley plus stable top of bank; 
Spill Area, and the regulatory floodplain limit plus 15 metres.  In accordance with O. Reg. 169 /06 development 
and within these areas and their adjacent lands require the permission from SVCA, prior to carrying out the 
work. 
 
“Development” as defined under the Conservation Authorities Act means: 
 
a) the construction, reconstruction, erection or placing of a building or structure of any kind; 
b) any change to a building or structure that would have the effect of altering the use or potential use 
of the building or structure, increasing the size of the building or structure or increasing the number 
of dwelling units in the building or structure; 
c) site grading; or, 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 7 of 9 
 
d) the temporary or permanent placing, dumping or removal of any material, originating on the site or 
elsewhere. 
 
And; 
 
“Alteration” as per Section 5 of Ontario Regulation 169/06 includes the straightening, diverting or 
interference in any way with a rive, creek, stream, or watercourse, or the changing or interfering in any 
way with a wetland. 
 
To determine the SVCA’s approximate regulated area on the property, please refer to the attached SVCA map.   
 
SVCA PERMISSION FOR DEVELOPMENT OR ALTERATION 
 
A SVCA permit may be required for development and alteration to the regulated areas noted above.  SVCA staff 
review of our regulatory mandate will occur concurrently with our review of any Planning Act application.  In 
general, SVCA staff recommend formal submission of SVCA’s application to alter a regulated area or to 
interfere with a watercourse after the Planning Act review process.  SVCA fees for permit application vary and 
will be addressed by reviewing staff at the time of application. 
 
Regulatory Floodplain/Spill Area 
 
In general, SVCA’s policies do not support development within the regulatory floodplain limit.  However, 
development within the Spill Area may be permitted subject to conditions noted below.  
 
SVCA does not regulate development in spill areas in the same manner as development within floodplain areas, 
as these areas are not readily defined and the storage/flow that occurs in these areas is not considered as part 
of the natural flood plain, hence preservation of flood storage is not required. Where spill locations can be 
identified, SVCA may permit development provided appropriate flood hazard mitigation can be established. 
Spill Regulated Areas are located within 50 metres of the indicated “Spill Area” on floodplain mapping.  
 
New development will be permitted within 50 metres of a spill area designated (in the geographic Town of 
Southampton only) and approved on engineered floodplain mapping, provided the following conditions are 
met:  
 
a)  the building or structure is floodproofed to the elevation of the Regulatory Flood;  
b)  grading is kept to a minimum;  
c)  structural engineering will be required should the lowest floor elevation be below the flood elevation;  
d)  safe access is achievable where feasible;  
e)  all habitable floor space and electrical, mechanical, and heating services are above the elevation of 
the   Regulatory Flood; and  
f) no basement is proposed, or the basement is floodproofed to the elevation of the Regulatory Flood. 
This may include structural engineering to ensure hydrostatic uplift and side pressure, velocity, 
impact loading, and waterproof design are addressed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 8 of 9 
 
Alteration to a Watercourse 
 
If alteration to the northerly watercourse is proposed for SWM outlet and should the development require 
access onto High Street (crossing the ditch/floodplain) a SVCA permit will be required and may be permitted, 
provided plans demonstrate the proposed will not have an impact on the control of flooding (i.e. no impact to 
the regulatory floodplain elevation), erosion, pollution, or the conservation of land. 
 
Right to Hearing           
 
Please be advised that the owner(s) of a property may submit an Application for a development or alteration 
proposal to the SVCA at any time.  An Application must be complete as determined by the SVCA for it to be 
considered.  The completeness of an Application is determined by SVCA staff, or an administrative review can 
be requested by the applicant to the SVCA's General Manager/Secretary Treasurer.  In the event that the 
administrative review by the SVCA's General Manager/Secretary Treasurer determines an Application is not 
complete, the applicant can request an administrative review by the Authority.     
 
In accordance with Section 28 (12) of the Conservation Authorities Act, permission required under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06, as amended, shall not be refused or granted subject to conditions unless the person 
requesting the permission has been given the opportunity for a hearing (by request) before the Authority or, in 
the case of the SVCA, before the Authority’s Executive Committee.  Should you receive a SVCA permit, 
approved by staff, with conditions of approval and object to one or more of the conditions, you will have the 
option to attend a hearing before the SVCA Executive Committee. Should you submit a complete Application 
for which staff is not prepared to issue a permit, you will have the option to attend a hearing scheduled before 
the SVCA Executive Committee.   
 
After holding a hearing under Section 28 (12), the SVCA Executive Committee shall,  
 
(a)    refuse the permission; or 
(b)    grant the permission, with or without conditions  
    
After the hearing, if the Executive Committee refuses permission, or grants permission subject to conditions, 
the person who requested permission shall be given written reasons for the decision.  If the person is refused 
permission or objects to conditions imposed on the permission, the person may appeal to the Minister of 
Natural Resources and Forestry within 30 days of receiving the reasons for the refusal. 
 
SUMMARY 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed your proposal in accordance with our Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the 
County of Bruce and as per our mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our 
regulatory role under the Conservation Authorities Act 
 
In general, residential development on the property is feasible, provided development addresses SVCA staff’s 
concerns/conditions noted in this report.   
 
Preliminary SVCA comments regarding Planning Act matters have been included within this correspondence 
but should not be considered all-encompassing for formal SVCA Planning Act application comments and you 
should contact the Town of Saugeen Shores to confirm your zoning status and the Planning Act application 
 
 
Brooks Turton 
Pre-Submission Consultation 
Lots 1 to 45, Plan 42M, Southampton 
June 18, 2020 
 
      Page 9 of 9 
 
process.  The Council for the County of Bruce and/or the Town of Saugeen Shores are the Approval Authorities 
for Planning Act applications, and the decisions for all applications, and on the requirement for the preparation 
of an EIS, remains with the Municipality and/or County.   
 
SVCA staff has provided comments for the proposed based on a site visit and review of current provincial, 
county, town, and SVCA policies.  There is no guarantee these comments will remain unchanged indefinitely.   
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.  Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Brandi Walter 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation 
 
BW/ 
Encl:     SVCA Maps, SVCA Stormwater Management Guidelines 
 
cc:  
Ron Davidson, Agent, (via email) 
 
 
Cheryl Grace, Authority Member (via email) 
 
Mike Myatt, Authority Member (via email) 
 Signature of Brandi Walter
From:
Michael Oberle
To:
Coreena Smith
Subject:
RE: Easthampton
Date:
Friday, May 5, 2023 10:24:44 AM
Attachments:
image001.png
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Good morning Coreena,
This email is in reply to your email of below regarding the above referenced file.
SVCA recommended conditions of draft plan approval:
1. That prior to any grading or construction on site, and prior to final approval of the subdivision by
the County, the owner shall prepare the following, completed to the satisfaction of the Saugeen
Valley Conservation Authority;
a. Final Lot Grading and Drainage Plan and Sediment and Erosion Control Plan.
Currently, Drawing No.: 2 South Grading and Drainage Plan, revision 5, signed and dated
April 21, 2023, prepared by GM BluePlan, is acceptable to the SVCA
Currently, Drawing No.: 3 North Grading and Drainage Plan, revision 5, signed and dated
April 21, 2023, prepared by GM BluePlan, is acceptable to the SVCA.
b. Stormwater Management Report.
Currently, the Stormwater Management Report, Phase 1, Easthampton Subdivision,
Southampton, dated April 2023, prepared by GM BluePlan, is acceptable to the SVCA.
2. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores contain
provisions with wording acceptable to the Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority relating to the
Final Lot Grading and Drainage and Final Sediment and Erosion Control Plan, and Final Stormwater
Management Report.
I trust that the above is helpful for now. SVCA staff look forward to continue to be involved, when
required, as part of this project.
Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Kind regards,
Mike
Michael Oberle
Environmental Planning Coordinator     
Cell: 519-373-4175
1078 Bruce Road 12, PO Box 150, Formosa, ON N0G 1W0
www.saugeenconservation.ca
From: Coreena Smith 
Sent: Thursday, May 4, 2023 12:11 PM      
To: Michael Oberle 
Subject: FW: Easthampton
**[CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click on
links or open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Michael,
Ron Davidson forwarded the attached materials to my attention on file S7 Easthampton in Saugeen
Shores, which includes an email from SVCA. Is SVCA now in a position to issue conditions of draft
plan approval that I can include in my upcoming report to the Town’s Planning Committee. If there
are specific conditions to include, please forward them to my attention by May 9, 2023 if possible.  If
more time is needed, please let me know.
Sincerely,
Coreena Smith 
Senior Planner
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
Direct: 1-226-909-6305
www.brucecounty.on.ca 
From: Ron Davidson
Sent: Monday, May 1, 2023 8:02 AM
To: Coreena Smith; Jay Pausner; Brooks Turton; Ian Eriksen - GM BluePlan
Subject: Easthampton
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Coreena, good morning.  Please see attached.      
Regards,
Ron
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc.
265 Beattie Street
Owen Sound, ON
N4K 6X2
Tel:   519 371-6829
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that
any personal information contained within their communications may become part of the public record
and may be made available through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s
website.
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all
copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation.
If you feel that this email was commercial in nature and you do not wish to receive further electronic
messages from the County of Bruce, please click on the following link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe.
Please be advised that this may restrict our ability to send messages to you in the future.   
 
Bluewater District School Board 
 
  
P.O. Box 190, 351 1st Avenue North 
 
Chesley, Ontario   N0G 1L0 
 
Telephone: (519) 363-2014    Fax: (519) 370-2909 
www.bwdsb.on.ca 
 
Learning Today, Leading Tomorrow 
August 3, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linda Redmond 
Planner, Planning & Development Department 
11243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin, ON  N0H 2C6 
bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca 
 
RE:  
S-2022-007 – Easthampton Subdivision 
 
Southampton,  Town of Saugeen Shores 
 
Attention: Linda Redmond, 
 
Thank you for circulating the first submission regarding a proposed Plan of Subdivision for the 
development described above. The proposed plan of subdivision consists of 9 single dwellings, and 
future development blocks.  
 
Bluewater District School Board has no objection to this development.  Planning staff request that 
sidewalks be included throughout the proposed development to facilitate heavy foot traffic areas and 
promote walkability. BWDSB requests the following conditions be included as part of draft plan 
approval: 
 
1. “That the owner(s) agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase and 
Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that accommodation within a public school 
operated by Bluewater District School Board may be accommodated in temporary facilities; 
including but not limited to accommodation in a portable classroom, a “holding school”, or may 
be directed to an alternate attendance boundary.”  
 
2. “That the owner(s) shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase 
and Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that student busing is at discretion of the 
Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce.”  
 
3. “That the owners(s) agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase and 
Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that if school buses are required within the 
Subdivision in accordance with Board Transportation policies, as may be amended from time to 
time, school bus pick up points will generally be located on the through street at a location as 
determined by the Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey Bruce.” 
 
Please provide BWDSB with a copy of the Notice of Decision, including a copy of the draft plan 
approved conditions for our files. Once the Subdivision Agreement has been registered, please provide 
BWDSB with a copy of the registered agreement in electronic format. Once the Plan has been 
registered, please provide BWDSB with a copy of the registered plan in electronic format. 
 
Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions, concerns or for more information. 
 
Sincerely, 
Shelley Crummer 
Business Analyst 
c.c.: 
Rob Cummings, Superintendent of Business Services 
 
Dennis Dick, Manager of Plant Services 
 
From:
Riel Warrilow
To:
Klarika Hamer
Subject:
Re: Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
Date:
Wednesday, August 3, 2022 2:25:18 PM
Attachments:
BRU_Logo_CMYK_Pos_7fe4ac59-8ed1-4449-be48-9e77bf2cdb4c.jpeg
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Thank you for your email. 
This application requires further engagement with the Saugeen Ojibway Nation.
We have contacted the proponent to initiate consultation.
Miigwech,
Riel Warrilow
Resources & Infrastructure Associate
T: (519)534-5507 ex 111
10129 Hwy 6 Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
10129 Hwy 6 Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
On Fri, Jul 15, 2022 at 10:58 AM Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca> wrote:
Good morning,
 
Please see the attached Application, Request for Agency Comments, Notice of Complete
Application, Draft Plan, Supporting Plans, Planning Justification Report, Stormwater
Management Report, Environmental Impact Study, Archaeological Assessment Letter and
Archaeological Assessment for the proposed Plan of Subdivision file number S-2022-007. 
 
The Public Meeting Notice for the proposed Subdivision Application will be circulated at a
later date.
 
Brooks – the Development Sign that is required to be posted at the property is being sent to
you via Purolator.  Once posted, please email a picture of the posted sign to
bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca.
 
Kind regards,
Klarika Hamer 
Applications Technician
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
www.brucecounty.on.ca 
 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware
that any personal information contained within their communications may become part of the public
record and may be made available through the agenda process which includes publication on the
County’s website.
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all
copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation.
If you feel that this email was commercial in nature and you do not wish to receive further
electronic messages from the County of Bruce, please click on the following link to
unsubscribe: Unsubscribe. Please be advised that this may restrict our ability to send
messages to you in the future.
 010129 Highway 6, 
 Georgian Bluffs, ON 
 N0H 2T0 
 (519) 534-5507 
 saugeenojibwaynation.ca 
 June 14, 2023 
 SENT VIA EMAIL 
 Launch Property Group Inc. 
 ℅ Brooks Turton 
 brooks@launchpropertygroup.com 
 VIA 
 Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultants Inc. 
 ronalddavidson@rogers.com 
 Re. Saugeen Ojibway Nation conditions for  Easthampton Subdivision, a Subdivision by 
 Launch Property Group Inc. ℅ Brooks Turtonat at Lots 1-32, Town of Saugeen Shores, 
 County of Bruce, Roll# 41104800601 
 The  Saugeen  Ojibway  Nation  (“SON”)  Environment  Office  and  Launch  Property  Group  Inc. 
 entered  into  a  Letter  of  Agreement  on  September  8,  2022  with  respect  to  our  mutual  goal  to  set 
 out  a  framework  for  consultation  and  accommodation  with  SON  regarding  the  proposed 
 Easthampton Subdivision  development in SON’s Territory. 
 This  agreement  was  intended  to  support  SON’s  participation  in  and  input  into  the  technical 
 assessments  being  undertaken  as  part  of  the  application  process.  More  specifically,  this 
 agreement  allows  SON  and  the  Launch  Property  Group  Inc.  to  identify  a  plan  for  addressing 
 any  potential  impacts  of  the  Easthampton  Subdivision  on  SON’s  lands  and  constitutionally 
 protected  Aboriginal  and  Treaty  rights,  proven  and  asserted,  including  SON’s  land  claims.  This 
 enabled  a  process  that  ensured  appropriate  and  meaningful  consultation  and  accommodation  of 
 SON’s rights and interests throughout the life of the Proponent’s proposed operation. 
 Launch Property Group Inc. - Easthampton Subdivision - Lots 1-32, Town of Saugeen 
 Shores, County of Bruce -  Nine detached dwellings (single-family homes each with 
 additional single rental units) under the current Draft Plan of Subdivision. 
 The Project is located on lands within SON’s Territory and may include sensitive species and 
 natural heritage features of specific cultural value to SON, archaeological importance, or other 
 environmental concerns. SON members exercise their constitutionally protected rights, both 
 asserted and proven, throughout SON’s Territory. 
 As per the Letter of Agreement, SON Environment Office has conducted peer reviewed 
 documents to measure the impact of the development on SON’s Indigenous rights and interests. 
 ●  NATURAL HERITAGE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY Residential Draft Plan of 
 Subdivision – Easthampton Plan M42 with Former Lots 1 to 45, Fronting Grenville and 
 High Street, Settlement of Southampton, Town of Saugeen Shores. Prepared for Launch 
 Property Group Inc. by AWS Environmental Consulting Inc. February 2022. 
 ●  PLANNING REPORT - PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL PLAN OF SUBDIVISION 
 “Easthampton Subdivision”, Lots 1 to 32, Plan M 42, Geographic Town of Southampton, 
 Town of Saugeen Shores, County of Bruce, Owner: 2  Launch Property Group Inc. (c/o 
 Brooks Turton), Prepared by: Ron Davidson, Land Use Planning Consultant Inc., Owen 
 Sound. April 18, 2022. 
 ●  STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REPORT – EASTHAMPTON SUBDIVISION, 
 Southampton. Prepared for Launch Property Group Inc. by GM Blue Plan Engineering. 
 GMBP File: 220138-1. February 2022. 
 ●  Stormwater  Management  Report,  Easthampton  Subdivision,  Southampton  (GMBlue 
 Plan, Feb. 2022). 
 ●  Stage 1 and 2 Archaeological Assessment: Plan M42 Lot 1 to 45 Sec M42; PCL 1-1 to 
 451 Block Part PCL; A-1; NE Corner of Grenville and High Streets, Town of Saugeen 
 Shores, former GT of Saugeen, Bruce County 
 Additional Background Research: 
 ●  J. Jalava field notes and photographs from a roadside site visit on December 4, 2022. 
 ●  Ontario Wetland Evaluation System, Southern Manual. 3rd Edition, Version 3.2. 2013 
 ●  Ontario Reptile and Amphibian Atlas database for Saugeen Ojibway Nation Territory, 
 provided to SON Environment Office by Ontario Nature, May 19, 2021. 
 ●  Ministry of the Environment, Conservation and Parks (MECP) water well database 
 The following summarises the findings of these reviews. 
 Natural Heritage Review Summary 
 Environmental Study was adequate however,  no apparent SON contact was made prior to or 
 during preparation of the EIS. 
 - 
 No review of Ontario Reptile and Amphibian Atlas, iNaturalist, Breeding Bird Survey, 
 Breeding Bird Atlas or eBird data (most of these data are easily accessed on-line). 
 - 
 No targeted bat surveys or bat habitat assessment were undertaken. 
 - 
 The level of detail provided in the ELC table and plant list appendix is not adequate to 
 demonstrate that “Community 2” is not a wetland.  ELC descriptions should indicate 
 species dominants for each vegetation stratum and the overall plant list should link each 
 species to the ELC type(s) in which it was observed. Assessing the site on the basis of 
 % native vs. non-native plant species is not helpful as presented, as the percentage may 
 differ significantly at the site level vs. the ELC community level; for example, the White 
 Cedar forest at the site could consist almost entirely of native species (indicating high 
 ecological quality) while most or all of the non-native species might occur in other more 
 disturbed habitats along the edges of the site.  There is no way to assess this because 
 of how information is presented in the EIS. 
 - 
 Mitigations recommended are adequate to address the ecological impacts of 
 development of nine residential lots along Grenville Street as proposed. 
 - 
 Any additional development on the subject lands (e.g., as proposed in the original 
 Concept Plan), given the high water table and the presence of a wetland (or at least 
 hydric soils) that support Black Ash (an at risk species of high cultural importance), 
 would be of concern to SON. 
 Natural Heritage Review Recommendations 
 1.  No road or building construction within Black Ash habitat (identified and mapped in the 
 AWS EIS as “Community 2. FOD7-2 Fresh-Moist Ash Lowland Deciduous Forest” and in 
 the SVCA map included in the EIS as “Local Flooded Area / Swale Feature”) or the 15m 
 wide buffer around the Black Ash habitat feature (as mapped in Figure 7: Natural 
 Heritage Features of the EIS). 
 2.  Any additional development plans for the remainder of the three lots owned by Launch 
 Property Group Ltd. will require further review and meaningful consultation with SON. 
 Hydrogeological Technical Review Summary 
 During  major  runoff  precipitation  events  a  portion  of  overland  flow  which  may  have  discharged 
 to  the  local  drainage  feature  associated  with  the  Black  Ash  habitat  may  now  be  collected  by  the 
 stormwater  management  facility  and  directed  away  from  the  habitat.  Given  the  shallow  sand 
 layer  on  the  site  and  the  characteristic  high  recharge  conditions  during  a  majority  of  the 
 precipitation  events  it  is  expected  that  the  overall  water  table  and  subsequent  soil  moisture 
 would  likely  be  maintained  for  the  current  proposed  development  given  the  extent  of 
 undeveloped land. 
 Hydrogeological Technical Review Recommendations 
 Any  additional  development  of  the  larger  subject  property  is  expected  to  require  additional 
 hydrological  and  hydrogeological  studies  to  confirm  the  site  specific  characteristics  and  provide 
 technical  input  for  a  feature  based  water  balance  related  to  the  Black  Ash  habitat  as  well  as  any 
 necessary water management options. 
 Archaeological Review Summary 
 Neither  Launch  Property  Group  Inc.  or  Scarlett  Janusas  Archaeology  Inc.  engaged  with  the 
 Saugeen  Ojibway  Nation  prior  to  or  during  the  2020  archaeological  Stage  1  Background  Study 
 or  Stage  2  Property  Assessment.  The  SON  Environment  Office  was  only  provided  with  the 
 assessment report following the completion of the Stages 1 and 2 assessment report .  
 Archaeological Review Recommendations 
 The  Ministry-accepted  Stage  1  and  Stage  2  archaeological  assessment  report  by  Scarlett 
 Janusas  Archaeology  Inc.  recommended  that  no  further  archaeological  assessment  is 
 required  for  the  proposed  Launch  Property  Group  Inc.  subdivision  development  at  the 
 northeast  corner  of  Grenville  North  and  High  Streets  in  Southampton  (Town  of  Saugeen 
 Shores).  That  recommendation  is  hesitantly  supported;  however,  when  development 
 commences,  the  area  where  the  two  structures  on  the  1857  Sproat  &  Hawkins  map  of 
 Southampton are depicted should be archaeologically monitored. 
 As per, the Letter of Agreement, the above recommendations from the technical review 
 are to be incorporated into the final plans and applications for the development. The 
 Black Ash on the property is of cultural importance to SON, the above recommendations 
 of how to protect the Black Ash from damage should be respected. 
 This is a finite landscape shared by many different forms of life that are inextricable from SON’s 
 rights, culture, ways of life, and the health of the lands and waters. In most parts of SON 
 Territory, well over 50% of natural lands have been significantly altered. The pressures of 
 development are ongoing, and increasing. Impacts occur at the scale of each individual project 
 as well as on a cumulative scale. The conversion of forests, wetlands, grasslands and other 
 natural habitats into developed lands (e.g., subdivisions, roads, utility corridors and other built 
 environments) has led to significant impacts on healthy ecological functions (e.g., loss of habitat 
 connectivity and biodiversity; declines in populations of plants and animals that are culturally 
 important to SON; reduced carbon sequestration and ecological resilience in the face of climate 
 change; introduction of invasive species) as well as impacts to fish habitat (e.g., due to 
 shoreline alteration), surface water and groundwater quality and quantity (which can occur as a 
 result of stormwater management and the infrastructure required for drinking water and sewage 
 management). The combinations of these land and water related impacts are a major concern 
 for SON, given the cumulative effects of multiple developments in a given area that typically 
 occur over time. SON’s uses of and relationships with its lands and waters since time 
 immemorial are impacted, as are, by extension, SON’s rights, interests, and responsibilities. 
 Miigwetch, 
 Manager of Resources and Infrastructure, 
 Environment Office of the Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
 Cc’ 
 Coreena Smith, Senior Planner, Corporation of the County of Bruce 
 Karen Heisler, Resource and Infrastructure Association, Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment 
 Office 
From:
LANDUSEPLANNING
To:
Klarika Hamer
Subject:
Town of Saugeen Shores - Lots 1 to 32 PL M42 - S-2022-007
Date:
Wednesday, July 27, 2022 1:09:44 PM
Attachments:
image001.png
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Hello,
 
We are in receipt of your Draft Plan of Subdivision Application, S-2022-007 dated July 15, 2022. We
have reviewed the documents concerning the noted Plan and have no comments or concerns at this
time. Our preliminary review considers issues affecting Hydro One’s 'High Voltage Facilities and
Corridor Lands' only.
 
For proposals affecting 'Low Voltage Distribution Facilities’  please consult your local area Distribution
Supplier.
 
To confirm if Hydro One is your local distributor please follow the following link:
http://www.hydroone.com/StormCenter3/
 
Please select “ Search” and locate address in question by entering the address or by zooming in and
out of the map
 
 
If Hydro One is your local area Distribution Supplier, please contact Customer Service at 1-888-664-
9376 or e-mail CustomerCommunications@HydroOne.com to be connected to your Local Operations
Centre
 
Thank you,
Kitty Luk
​
Real Estate Assistant  I  Land Use Planning
 
Hydro One Networks Inc.
185 Clegg Road
Markham, ON | L6G 1B7
 
 
Email:    landuseplanning@hydroone.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Sent: Friday, July 15, 2022 10:57 AM
To: Jay Pausner <jay.pausner@saugeenshores.ca>; Clerk <clerk@saugeenshores.ca>; Shelley
Crummer <Shelley_Crummer@bwdsb.on.ca>; Al Hastie <al_hastie@bgcdsb.org>; Saugeen Valley -
Conservation Authority (bruce.county@SVCA.ON.CA) <bruce.county@svca.on.ca>;
LANDUSEPLANNING <LandUsePlanning@HydroOne.com>; Customer Communications
<CustomerCommunications@HydroOne.com>; Customer Serivce - Westario
(customer.service@westario.com) <customer.service@westario.com>;
ontugllandsinq@enbridge.com; ONTUGLLandsINQ@uniongas.com; HSM
<HSMASSTLRCC@bmts.com>; Consultations <consultations@metisnation.org>; Riel Warrilow
(associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca) <associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>; Juanita Meekins
<juanita.meekins@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>; circulations@wsp.com;
engineering@brucetelecom.com; Eng-osprequest@req01.eastlink.ca; weichenberger@wightman.ca;
customerservice@hurontel.on.ca; Shantz, Tyler (MMAH) <Tyler.Shantz@ontario.ca>; Consents
<lpuconsents@mpac.ca>; MTO <Jessica.Pegelo@ontario.ca>;
stephen.white@canadapost.postescanada.ca
Cc: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>; Ron Davidson <ronalddavidson@rogers.com>;
Brooks Turton <brooks@launchpropertygroup.com>; Linda Redmond
<LRedmond@brucecounty.on.ca>
Subject: Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
 
*** Exercise caution. This is an EXTERNAL email. DO NOT open attachments or click
links from unknown senders or unexpected email. ***
Good morning,
 
Please see the attached Application, Request for Agency Comments, Notice of Complete Application,
Draft Plan, Supporting Plans, Planning Justification Report, Stormwater Management Report,
Environmental Impact Study, Archaeological Assessment Letter and Archaeological Assessment for
the proposed Plan of Subdivision file number S-2022-007. 
 
The Public Meeting Notice for the proposed Subdivision Application will be circulated at a later date.
 
Brooks – the Development Sign that is required to be posted at the property is being sent to you via
Purolator.  Once posted, please email a picture of the posted sign to bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca.
 
Kind regards,
Klarika Hamer 
Applications Technician
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
www.brucecounty.on.ca 
 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that
any personal information contained within their communications may become part of the public record and
may be made available through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s website.
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all
copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation.
If you feel that this email was commercial in nature and you do not wish to receive further electronic
messages from the County of Bruce, please click on the following link to unsubscribe: Unsubscribe.
Please be advised that this may restrict our ability to send messages to you in the future.
This email and any attached files are privileged and may contain confidential information
intended only for the person or persons named above. Any other distribution, reproduction,
copying, disclosure, or other dissemination is strictly prohibited. If you have received this email
in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply email and delete the transmission
received by you. This statement applies to the initial email as well as any and all copies (replies
and/or forwards) of the initial email
From:
Coordinator LRC HSM
To:
Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub
Subject:
Request for Comments - Saugeen Shores (Launch Property Group) - Proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision
Date:
Tuesday, July 19, 2022 3:37:56 PM
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Saugeen Shores Municipality
RE: S-2022-007 - Draft Plan of Subdivision
The Historic Saugeen Métis (HSM) Lands, Resources and Consultation Department 
has reviewed the proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision application as submitted by 
Launch Property Group. HSM has no objection or opposition to the proposed 
application and offers the following comments.
HSM supports the need to construct of a stormwater management pond as current 
stormwater flows in the area have a direct impact on Fairly Lake water quality and the 
surrounding environment. In regard to the Impact Assessment and the presence of 
black ash trees, it should be noted that this tree also has significant cultural value to 
indigenous communities.
Thank you for the opportunity to review this matter.
Regards,
Chris Hachey
Coordinator, Lands, Resources & Consultation 
Historic Saugeen Métis
email: hsmlrcc@bmts.com
phone: 519-483-4000
site: saugeenmetis.com
address: 204 High Street Southampton, ON
This message is intended for the addressees only. It may contain confidential or 
privileged information. No rights to privilege have been waived. Any copying, 
retransmittal, taking of action in reliance on, or other use of the information in this 
communication by persons other than the intended recipients(s) is prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please reply to the sender by e-mail and delete 
or destroy all copies of this message.
From:
Al Hastie
To:
Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub
Subject:
Fwd: Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
Date:
Monday, July 18, 2022 9:02:59 AM
Attachments:
BRU_Logo_CMYK_Pos_7fe4ac59-8ed1-4449-be48-9e77bf2cdb4c.jpeg
Request for Agency Comments S7 Easthampton.pdf
Notice of Complete Application S7 Easthampton.pdf
Subdivision Application S7 Easthampton.pdf
Supporting Plans S7 Easthampton.pdf
Archaeological Assessment Letter S7 Easthampton.pdf
Planning Justification Report S7 Easthampton.pdf
Stormwater Management Report S7 Easthampton.pdf
Environmental Impact Study S7 Easthampton.pdf
Archaeological Assessment S7 Easthampton.pdf
Draft Plan S7 Easthampton.pdf
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
No Comments
Al Hastie 
---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca>
Date: Fri, Jul 15, 2022 at 10:58 AM
Subject: Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
To: Jay Pausner <jay.pausner@saugeenshores.ca>, Clerk <clerk@saugeenshores.ca>, Shelley
Crummer <Shelley_Crummer@bwdsb.on.ca>, Al Hastie <al_hastie@bgcdsb.org>, Saugeen
Valley - Conservation Authority (bruce.county@SVCA.ON.CA) <bruce.county@svca.on.ca>,
Hydro One <landuseplanning@hydroone.com>, Hydro One Networks Inc.
(customercommunications@HydroOne.com) <CustomerCommunications@hydroone.com>,
Customer Serivce - Westario (customer.service@westario.com)
<customer.service@westario.com>, ontugllandsinq@enbridge.com
<ontugllandsinq@enbridge.com>, ONTUGLLandsINQ@uniongas.com
<ONTUGLLandsINQ@uniongas.com>, HSM <HSMASSTLRCC@bmts.com>,
Consultations <consultations@metisnation.org>, Riel Warrilow
(associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca) <associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>, Juanita
Meekins <juanita.meekins@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>, circulations@wsp.com
<circulations@wsp.com>, engineering@brucetelecom.com
<engineering@brucetelecom.com>, Eng-osprequest@req01.eastlink.ca <Eng-
osprequest@req01.eastlink.ca>, weichenberger@wightman.ca
<weichenberger@wightman.ca>, customerservice@hurontel.on.ca
<customerservice@hurontel.on.ca>, Shantz, Tyler (MMAH) <Tyler.Shantz@ontario.ca>,
Consents <lpuconsents@mpac.ca>, MTO <Jessica.Pegelo@ontario.ca>,
stephen.white@canadapost.postescanada.ca <stephen.white@canadapost.postescanada.ca>
Cc: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>, Ron Davidson
<ronalddavidson@rogers.com>, Brooks Turton <brooks@launchpropertygroup.com>, Linda
Redmond <LRedmond@brucecounty.on.ca>
Bruce-Grey Catholic District School Board 
Good morning,
Please see the attached Application, Request for Agency Comments, Notice of Complete
Application, Draft Plan, Supporting Plans, Planning Justification Report, Stormwater
Management Report, Environmental Impact Study, Archaeological Assessment Letter and
Archaeological Assessment for the proposed Plan of Subdivision file number S-2022-007.
The Public Meeting Notice for the proposed Subdivision Application will be circulated at a
later date.
Brooks – the Development Sign that is required to be posted at the property is being sent to
you via Purolator. Once posted, please email a picture of the posted sign to
bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca.
Kind regards,
Klarika Hamer 
Applications Technician
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
www.brucecounty.on.ca
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that
any personal information contained within their communications may become part of the public record
and may be made available through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s
website.
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all
copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation.
If you feel that this email was commercial in nature and you do not wish to receive further
electronic messages from the County of Bruce, please click on the following link to
unsubscribe: Unsubscribe. Please be advised that this may restrict our ability to send messages
to you in the future.
From:
Michael MacDougall via req01
To:
Klarika Hamer
Subject:
Resolved Eng - Fiber Quote Notice [ENG-OSP Quote #1450894]
Date:
Friday, July 15, 2022 12:23:33 PM
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
 Resolved Ticket Notice; Subject Request For Agency Comments S7 
Easthampton 
The review of the ticket for has been completed by the Design Team. 
The results will be provided by a CSE Shortly 
The
 Site Survey Status will be updated by Buscoor within 1 Business day.
Ticket info: 
Closing Comments: ------------------------------------------------------------------
---------- No concern at this tiime 
Eastlink Inc.
From:
Ontario Lands
To:
Klarika Hamer
Subject:
RE: Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
Date:
Friday, July 15, 2022 11:03:53 AM
Attachments:
image001.jpg
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Thank you for your correspondence with regards to draft plan of approval for the above noted
project.
It is Enbridge Gas Inc.’s (formerly Union Gas Ltd) request that as a condition of final approval that the
owner/developer provide to Enbridge the necessary easements and/or agreements required by
Enbridge for the provision of gas services for this project, in a form satisfactory to Enbridge.
Should you require any further information, please contact the undersigned.
Kelly Buchanan 
Land Analyst
—
ENBRIDGE GAS INC.
TEL: 519-436-4673| FAX: 519-358-4271
50 Keil Dr N, Chatham ON  N7M 5M1
enbridge.com
Safety. Integrity. Respect.
From: Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Sent: Friday, July 15, 2022 10:57 AM
To: Jay Pausner <jay.pausner@saugeenshores.ca>; Clerk <clerk@saugeenshores.ca>; Shelley
Crummer <Shelley_Crummer@bwdsb.on.ca>; Al Hastie <al_hastie@bgcdsb.org>; Saugeen Valley -
Conservation Authority (bruce.county@SVCA.ON.CA) <bruce.county@svca.on.ca>; Hydro One
<landuseplanning@hydroone.com>; Hydro One Networks Inc.
(customercommunications@HydroOne.com) <CustomerCommunications@HydroOne.com>;
Customer Serivce - Westario (customer.service@westario.com) <customer.service@westario.com>;
ONTUGLLandsINQ <ONTUGLLandsINQ@enbridge.com>; ONTUGLLandsINQ
<ONTUGLLandsINQ@enbridge.com>; HSM <HSMASSTLRCC@bmts.com>; Consultations
<consultations@metisnation.org>; Riel Warrilow (associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca)
<associate.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>; Juanita Meekins
<juanita.meekins@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>; circulations@wsp.com;
engineering@brucetelecom.com; Eng-osprequest@req01.eastlink.ca;
weichenberger@wightman.ca; customerservice@hurontel.on.ca; Shantz, Tyler (MMAH)
<Tyler.Shantz@ontario.ca>; Consents <lpuconsents@mpac.ca>; MTO <Jessica.Pegelo@ontario.ca>;
stephen.white@canadapost.postescanada.ca
Cc: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>; Ron Davidson <ronalddavidson@rogers.com>;
Brooks Turton <brooks@launchpropertygroup.com>; Linda Redmond
<LRedmond@brucecounty.on.ca>
Subject: [External] Request For Agency Comments S7 Easthampton
CAUTION! EXTERNAL SENDER
 Were you expecting this email? TAKE A CLOSER LOOK. Is the sender legitimate?
DO NOT click links or open attachments unless you are 100% sure that the email is safe.
Good morning,
Please see the attached Application, Request for Agency Comments, Notice of Complete Application,
Draft Plan, Supporting Plans, Planning Justification Report, Stormwater Management Report,
Environmental Impact Study, Archaeological Assessment Letter and Archaeological Assessment for
the proposed Plan of Subdivision file number S-2022-007. 
The Public Meeting Notice for the proposed Subdivision Application will be circulated at a later date.
Brooks – the Development Sign that is required to be posted at the property is being sent to you via
Purolator.  Once posted, please email a picture of the posted sign to bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca.
Kind regards,
Klarika Hamer 
Applications Technician
Planning and Development
Corporation of the County of Bruce
Office: 519-881-1782
www.brucecounty.on.ca 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that
any personal information contained within their communications may become part of the public record
and may be made available through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s
website.
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all
copies (electronic or otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation.
From:
Jay Pausner
To:
Coreena Smith
Subject:
Easthampton
Date:
Thursday, May 4, 2023 9:01:05 AM
Attachments:
Town Draft Conditions of Approval - Easthampton phase 1.docx
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Please see attached the Town’s proposed conditions of approval.
 
I draw your attention to conditions 28, 29 and 30 for addressing specific matters.  The remainder of
the conditions are typical Town conditions recommended for all subdivisions.
 
Jay Pausner
Supervisor, Development Services
Town of Saugeen Shores
600 Tomlinson Drive, Box 820, Port Elgin ON N0H 2C0
T 519-832-2008 x120 | F 519-832-2140
E jay.pausner@saugeenshores.ca | saugeenshores.ca
 
 
Disclaimer
The information contained in this message is directed in confidence solely to the person(s) named above and may not be otherwise
distributed, copied or disclosed. The message may contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure under
the Municipal Freedom of Information and Protection and Privacy Act. If you have received this message in error, please notify the
sender immediately advising of the error and delete the message without making a copy. Thank you.
 
 
1 
          Launch Property Group Inc. 
S-2022-007 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
TOWN’S RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF DRAFT PLAN OF SUBDIVISION 
APPROVAL 
 
Identification 
 
1. That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File S-2022-007 for Easthampton 
Subdivision – Phase 1. 
 
Servicing, Stormwater Management, Public Roads, Walkways, Streetlighting & 
Future Development. 
 
 
2. Any dead ends and open sides of road allowances created by this Draft Plan shall be terminated 
in 0.3 metre reserves. 
 
3. Walkways and Service Corridors shall be conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, free and 
clear of encumbrances. 
 
4. 
a. Sidewalks shall be installed on one side of the local streets in a location and 
standard approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
b. Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of collector roads in a location and 
standard approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
c. Sidewalks shall be installed external to the Plan of Subdivision, where required by 
the Town. 
 
5. Before any lots, blocks, roads, walkways, trails, service corridors, 0.3 metre reserves, 
identified in this Plan are conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, they shall be free and 
clear of encumbrances. 
 
6. All street and public lighting fixtures shall be dark-sky compliant. 
 
7. Site Visibility Triangles at the intersections of all roads shall be conveyed to the Town 
of Saugeen Shores, as required by the Town and shall be provided clear and free of 
encumbrance. 
 
8. Temporary turning circles or other approved turnarounds, shall be installed, if required 
by the approved phasing/staging of the subdivision, to the Town’s satisfaction.  
Provisions for the design, construction, and decommissioning of the turnarounds shall 
be incorporated in the subdivision agreement. 
 
9. The Owner acknowledges that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of 
Saugeen Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity generally.  Notwithstanding the 
previous statement, commitment to reserve water and sanitary servicing capacity shall 
be granted where existing agreements identify such commitment but only to the extent 
such detail provides in existing agreements. 
 
10. Watermains shall be looped as required by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
2 
          Launch Property Group Inc. 
S-2022-007 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
 
11. The Owner shall prepare a Stormwater Management Plan by a technically qualified 
consultant and approved by the Town. 
 
12. The Owner shall prepare, to the Town’s satisfaction, a Lot Grading Plan by a 
technically qualified consultant; The Plan shall indicate proposed lot grades and shall 
ensure minimal removal of trees. The Agreement may impose lot grading securities on 
each lot to provide assurances that the lots are graded in accordance with the approved 
drawings. 
 
13. The Owner shall prepare an erosion control plan to the Town’s satisfaction. 
 
14. All internal and external services and upgrades to existing services required for the 
development of this Plan shall be designed by a qualified professional to the Town of Saugeen 
Shores satisfaction and in accordance with the Town’s Development Manual and 
constructed/installed at the owner's expense. 
 
Parkland / Open Space 
 
15. That the Owner conveys land in the amount required pursuant to the Official Plan for 
The Town of Saugeen Shores for residential purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores 
for park purposes Alternatively, the Town of Saugeen Shores may accept cash-in-lieu 
for the said conveyance and under provisions of The Official Plan for The Town of 
Saugeen Shores is hereby authorized to do so.  The Town may also accept a 
combination of land and cash to satisfy this requirement. 
 
Easements 
 
16. That the Owner agrees to grant such easements as may be required for utility or 
drainage purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores or other appropriate authority. 
 
Subdivision Agreement 
 
17. That the Owner enter into an agreement with the Town of Saugeen Shores to satisfy 
all the requirements of the Town of Saugeen Shores, and including matters required in 
these conditions of approval and may also include the following to the satisfaction of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores: 
 
i. the contribution to or the making of any required off-site improvements. 
 
18. That the Subdivision Agreement be registered by the Town of Saugeen Shores 
against the land to which it applies and a copy of the registered agreement be 
forwarded to the County of Bruce at the time of Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Staging and Lapsing 
 
 
3 
          Launch Property Group Inc. 
S-2022-007 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
19. That the Owner agrees to stage any development of the Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
20. The Owner shall prepare a Phasing Plan, if deemed necessary by the Town, 
outlining the timing of the required studies, and the design and timing of construction of 
all amenities and services (road construction, services, pedestrian linkages, trails 
connections, etc.). 
 
Utilities & Canada Post 
 
21. An overall utility distribution plan shall be prepared and submitted for approval to the 
satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
22. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate electric 
provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electrical services to this Plan.   
 
23. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of 
permanent or temporary telecommunications services, gas and cable services to this 
Plan. 
 
24. The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the installation of postal 
boxes, if deemed necessary by Canada Post.  The location and design of postal boxes 
shall be jointly approved by Canada Post and the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
 
25. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan 
of Subdivision conforms to the Town of Saugeen Shores Local Official Plan approved 
under the Planning Act. 
 
26. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan 
of Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning Act.  
Holding provisions, pursuant to Section 36 of The Planning Act may be used in 
conjunction with any zone category to be applied to the subject lands in order to ensure 
that development does not occur until such time as the Holding “H” symbol is removed 
in accordance with the provisions of The Planning Act.  The Zoning By-law shall specify 
the terms under which Council may consider the removal of the Holding “H” symbol. 
 
Notices & Warning Clauses 
 
27. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen 
Shores include the requirement for the following Notice / Warning Clauses to be 
included in all offers of purchase and sale for residential lots on the Plan: 
 
i. 
“Stormwater Management Facilities 
 
4 
          Launch Property Group Inc. 
S-2022-007 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater runoff on the 
lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management Plan. No Owner of any lot shall 
alter, interfere with or remove any of the Stormwater Management Facilities located 
within the lot except in accordance with the approved Stormwater Management Plan. 
Changes or alterations to the approved Stormwater Management Plan shall require the 
prior approval of the Town of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority.” 
 
ii. 
 “Lot Grading 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an approved Lot Grading 
Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter the grade or place or remove any fill material within 
any yard except in accordance with the approved Lot Grading Plan. Changes or 
alterations to the approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.” 
 
Attainable Housing 
 
28. The Owner shall agree to construct at least two (2) additional residential units within 
Lots 1 to 9 in the subdivision. This term shall be incorporated into the subdivision 
agreement. 
 
Blocks 14, 15, 16 
 
29. The Owner agrees to install stormwater works on Blocks 14 to the satisfaction of the 
Town. 
 
30. The Owner acknowledges that Blocks 14, 15 and 16 are to be developed, if to be 
developed, as a plan of Subdivision. 
 
Other 
 
31. All disturbed lots or blocks to be left vacant for longer than thirty (30) days shall be 
graded, seeded and maintained to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
Digital Plan Submission 
 
32. That prior to Final Approval the Owner shall submit to the Town of Saugeen Shores 
a digital file of the Plan to be registered in a format approved by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores. 
 
5 
          Launch Property Group Inc. 
S-2022-007 
 
                                                                                                                                                                 
Notes to Draft Approval: Subdivision File No. S-2022-007  
 
1. We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the County 
and the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any Application. 
 
2. The Owner is advised that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of 
Saugeen Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity.  
 
 
 
