BRUCE COUNTY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Housing Action Plan
2024-2026Bruce County
Contents
Executive Summary.......................................................4
Current Actions – 2022-2024......................................6
Research, Education & Communication......................................6
Policy & Regulations............................................................................ 7
Strategic Leadership, Advocacy & Collaboration.......................... 7
Actions on Housing – 2024-2026...............................9
Research & Monitoring.....................................................................10
Policy & Regulation.............................................................................11
Community Development Programs ......................................... 12
Incentives to Impact Affordability............................................... 13
Consultation & Engagement .........................................................14
Education, Communication & Advocacy.................................. 15
Next Steps.......................................................................16
Appendix:........................................................................17
Housing Needs, Affordability and Supply  
in Bruce County: Summary from the 2024 
Municipal Housing Forum..........................................17
Housing Need...................................................................................... 17
Housing Supply & Affordability..................................................... 18
Current Supply..................................................................................... 18
Current Affordability.........................................................................19
Defining Affordable Housing For Bruce County.....................20
Workforce & Housing........................................................................22
3
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Executive Summary
Like many communities in Ontario and Canada, Bruce County is 
challenged by the rising cost and availability of housing.
T
o meet current and future community housing needs, a wide range of actions need to be taken 
by all levels of government, agencies, non-profits and developers.
Bruce County Council established the Community Development Office to provide strategic 
leadership and coordination on activities that Bruce County can lead to help create conditions 
locally to increase the supply and impact the affordability of housing.
The Housing Action Plan includes 25 actions that Bruce County will advance across six (6) areas of 
practice between 2024 and 2026. Areas of practice include research, policy development, programs, 
incentives, engagement and advocacy for investment in housing solutions to meet the unique 
needs across the County.
The Housing Action Plan will further Bruce County’s Strategic Plan 2023-2026 priority to increase 
housing options and encourage innovative solutions to build a strong and inclusive community.
Actions included in this plan are focused on impacting the supply and affordability of housing 
options in the middle to right end of the housing continuum, including community housing, 
below-market rental/ownership, private rental and home ownership.
4
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Bruce County Human Services Department, through its Housing Services Division, is responsible 
for the delivery and administration of provincially mandated social and affordable housing 
programs, as well as initiatives to prevent and address homelessness. Actions impacting 
homelessness services, emergency housing, transitional/supportive housing, and community 
housing will be set out in a new 10-year Housing and Homelessness Action Plan for Bruce County, 
which is being prepared separately from this Housing Action Plan.
The actions of this plan will be led by the Community Development Office through Bruce County’s 
Housing Cross-Functional team including staff from Human Services, Planning & Development, 
Government Relations, and Economic Development. Implementation of this plan will be undertaken 
in consultation with municipalities, rights holders and stakeholders within Bruce County.
When considering actions to take on housing, Bruce County is focused on using the tools currently 
available to the County and its member municipalities, as well as advocating to other levels of 
government for funding and additional tools to create local housing solutions.
Actions within the County’s jurisdiction include creating supportive policy to manage growth 
and increase the variety of housing to meet local needs; permitting more housing development 
as-of-right; implementing process improvements; providing incentives for affordable housing; 
assessing the supply of surplus government lands to support affordable housing builds; supporting 
non-profit and private developers, and building new housing units through the Bruce County 
Housing Corporation.
Bruce County is focused on taking action to create conditions locally to increase the supply 
and impact affordability of housing.
Housing ContinuumThe Housing Continuum has 8 levels: Homelessness Services, Emergency Shelters, Transitional Housing, Supportive Housing, Community or Social Housing, Below-market rental/ownership, Private rental, and Home Ownership. 
5
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Research, Education 
& Communication
The first annual Housing Forum for 
municipalities was hosted by Bruce County 
in February 2023. This was an opportunity to 
bring leaders from the County and the eight 
municipalities across Bruce County together 
to present the findings of the Housing 
Demographic Study, and to talk about the 
County’s role in housing and planning and to 
understand current services being delivered. 
Current Actions – 
2022-2024
Bruce County began taking focused and coordinated action on housing in 
2022-23. This section highlights actions undertaken in 2022 and 2023, and 
those actions initiated in early 2024. 
Bruce County developed affordable 
housing toolkits for homeowners 
and developers:	
• Affordable Housing 101 which 
outlines what affordable housing is 
in Bruce County. 
• Multi-Residential and Ground-Related 
Affordable Housing to encourage 
the construction of a variety of 
housing options.
• Additional Residential Units to increase 
housing options by introducing rental 
housing in the form of apartments within 
existing homes or detached buildings on 
properties with existing homes. 
6
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Each toolkit includes background information 
including funding programs, current 
regulations, a step-by-step guide to the 
process, as well as a developer’s checklist.
Bruce County also completed a study 
Exploring Options and Opportunities for 
Home-Sharing in Bruce County in 2023. 
This study found that home sharing can 
assist with housing affordability, facilitating 
housing stability, increasing social inclusion 
by reducing social isolation and loneliness, 
and decreasing wait time for housing. It also 
found there was demand for home sharing 
relationships from seniors, students, young 
professionals and temporary workforce.
In 2023, Human Services staff began work 
on a new Housing and Homelessness Plan. 
This plan will be in effect for the next 10 years 
and is focused on housing and homelessness 
supports including emergency shelter, 
supportive and transitional forms of housing. 
At the time of the release of this Action 
Plan, the province requested Service System 
Managers not to complete this work until a 
review of provincial government direction 
is completed. Staff continue to progress the 
work on housing and homelessness supports 
but the formal release of the Housing and 
Homelessness Plan is on pause until further 
direction is provided by the province. 
This work will come forward to Bruce 
County Council once further provincial 
direction is provided.
A second municipal Housing Forum was 
held in April 2024. The second Housing 
Forum focused on understanding housing 
affordability issues and the housing supply 
within the County.
The information presented at the 2nd Annual 
Municipal Housing Forum is included in the 
Appendix of this Housing Action Plan.
Policy & Regulations
In 2022 and 2023, Planning & Development 
staff reviewed and provided comments 
on several rounds of provincial legislative 
and policy changes. Staff communicated 
these changes to municipal staff, County 
Council and key stakeholders. Many of these 
changes impacted the processing and policies 
related to housing supply. The Planning & 
Development Department has been working 
with local municipalities to complete policy 
and zoning by-law updates to provide a 
greater variety of housing options without 
the need to trigger planning applications.
Strategic Leadership, 
Advocacy & Collaboration
In 2023, Bruce County Council invested in 
the creation of two strategic program areas: 
Government Relations, and the Community 
Development Office. 
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS:
The Government Relations Department was 
created to build intergovernmental relations 
with provincial, federal and municipal levels 
of government. It works with local municipal­
ities and organizations such as Association 
of Municipalities of Ontario (AMO), Rural 
Ontario Municipal Association (ROMA) and 
the Western Warden’s Caucus. Government 
Relations provides strategic leadership, 
communication and advocacy on the unique 
needs of Bruce County to other levels 
of government.
7
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
The provincial and federal levels of 
government largely control the funding and 
tools the County and municipalities need to 
be able to put affordable housing solutions 
in place. Building positive relationships 
with other levels of government is key to be 
able to implement tangible and sustainable 
affordable housing solutions in Bruce County.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT:
The Community Development Office was 
created to provide strategic leadership on 
several County priority projects, including 
Housing. The Office is led by a Commissioner 
who coordinates the work of several County 
departments to ensure alignment and focus 
on the actions that have the potential to 
impact housing supply and affordability. 
The Housing Cross Functional Team has 
staff representation from Human Services, 
Planning & Development, Employment 
Services, Economic Development, and 
Government Relations. Other County 
Departments are also available as needed 
to support the work of the Housing Cross 
Functional Team.
The complex issue of housing supply and 
affordability requires multi-faceted, multi-
disciplinary solutions to create conditions 
to increase the supply of housing and to 
impact its affordability.
The County will lead and deliver multiple 
actions across several Departments in 
alignment to create impact within the scope of 
tools and regulations available to the County, 
in partnership with local municipalities.
The 2024-2026 action plan looks to build on 
the success of the current actions, using the 
Housing Cross Functional Team to coordinate 
and align initiatives that impact the supply and 
affordability of housing under the leadership 
of the Community Development Office.
The County recognizes involvement from 
municipalities, Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
Environmental Office, Indigenous Serving 
Organizations, other levels of government, 
non-profit and private developers are all 
needed in order to implement the actions 
and solutions set out in this plan.The Community Development Office is supported by many Bruce County departments: Economic Development, Employment Services, Emergency Services, Transportation and Environmental Services, Planning and Development, Human Services, and Government Relations.
8
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Actions on Housing – 
2024-2026
This section outlines key actions Bruce County will lead between 
2024-2026 to increase housing supply and impact affordability.
The plan proposes 25 actions outlined across six areas of practice. These actions have an assigned 
lead County Department(s) and will be guided with input from the Housing Cross Functional Team 
and strategic oversight from the Community Development Office. These actions will be prioritized 
and scheduled into Departmental workplans, with input from the Community Development Office. 
Multiple actions will be undertaken at same time across the County Departments to have the 
greatest level of impact in a short period of time.
Recognizing the complex and dynamic nature of the current housing challenge—the work of the 
housing team will be adaptable to changing legislation, availability of funding, and actions taken by 
other levels of government, non-profits and the private sector.
Areas of PracticeThe seven areas of practice include: Research and Monitoring, Policy and Regulation, Community Development Programs, Incentives to Impact Affordability, Consultation and engagement, and Education, communication and advocacy.
The areas of practice, actions, details and lead department(s) are outlined in the following tables.
9
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Monitor and share 
best practices
•	 Hold annual Housing Forum.
•	 Update Affordable Housing Toolkit.
•	 Create Community Development 
Office webpage to share best practice 
and funding information.
Community 
Development 
and Human 
Services
Monitor federal and 
provincial funding 
and program 
announcements
•	 Review federal and provincial 
budget announcements.
•	 Build relationships with CMHC 
program staff.
•	 Share information with key 
stakeholders.
Community 
Development 
and Human 
Services 
Report on housing 
units approved 
through planning 
applications
•	 Provide bi-annual updates to 
County Council. 
•	 Report annually at Housing Forum.
Planning & 
Development
Report on housing 
units constructed
•	 Report annually at Housing Forum.
Planning & 
Development 
and local 
municipalities
Monitor and report 
on housing needs
•	 Create and maintain data resource for 
non-profit housing providers.
Human 
Services
Report progress on 
Housing Action Plan 
initiatives
•	 Bi-annual Progress Report to 
County Council.
•	 Report progress at the annual 
Housing Forum.
Community 
Development 
Office
Research & 
Monitoring
10
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Update County and 
local Official Plans
•	 Develop supportive official plan 
policies to increase the mix and type 
of housing in settlement areas.
•	 Establish policies that encourage 
rental multi-unit housing.
•	 Establish policies that enable 
implementation of community 
planning permit systems.
Planning & 
Development 
and local 
municipalities
Update local
zoning by-laws
•	 Update local zoning by-laws to 
include as-of-right permissions such 
as additional residential units and 
multi-unit dwellings. 
Planning & 
Development 
and local 
municipalities
Planning process 
improvement
•	 Apply lens of continuous 
improvement to planning and 
development processes.
•	 Explore opportunities to streamline 
and integrate pre-application and 
development review process with 
approval agencies.
•	 Create a program to facilitate 
development review and approvals 
for affordable housing.
Planning & 
Development 
and local 
municipalities
Policy & 
Regulation
11
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Surplus land 
inventory
•	 Support municipalities to identify, 
pre-screen surplus lands, assist with 
developing framework to identify 
surplus lands for housing.
Community 
Development 
and Planning & 
Development
Housing concierge 
service
•	 Provide support to non-profits to 
develop affordable housing.
•	 Establish regular contact with 
developers to seek input on 
process improvements.
Community 
Development, 
Human 
Services and 
Planning & 
Development
Home share 
program
•	 Explore engaging a third-party 
service to promote, match and 
manage home-sharing arrangements 
between existing residents, workforce 
and students. 
Economic 
Development 
and Human 
Services
Community
Development 
Programs 
12
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Advocate for 
permission to create 
a County-wide 
Affordable Housing 
Community 
Improvement Plan
•	 Advocate to the province to 
allow Bruce County to establish a 
County-wide Affordable Housing 
Community Improvement Plan to 
provide financial incentives to help 
create affordable housing.
Community 
Development 
and 
Government 
Relations
Consider funding 
options for 
affordable housing 
incentives
•	 Identify options for funding affordable 
housing initiatives through annual 
budgets.
•	 Consider funding incentives 
through tools such as Community 
Improvement Plans and/or municipal 
capital facilities by-laws.
Community 
Development, 
Corporate 
Services 
and Human 
Services
Identify ways to 
support private 
and non-profit 
affordable housing 
builds
•	 Inventory current programs in local 
Community Improvement Plans to 
determine if existing Community 
Improvement Plan programs could 
support affordable housing builds.
Economic 
Development 
and Human 
Services
Incentives 
to Impact 
Affordability
13
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Engage 
municipalities in 
Housing Action Plan 
implementation
•	 Establish working group with 
municipalities to seek input on 
implementation of housing actions.
Community 
Development 
Office
Engage Saugeen 
Ojibway Nation 
Environment 
Office and 
Indigenous Serving 
Organizations
•	 Engage Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
Environment Office on policy, 
zoning by-law updates, and process 
improvements for development 
review.
•	 Engage Indigenous serving 
organizations to seek input on 
implementation of housing actions.
Community 
Development 
and Planning & 
Development
Grow non-profit 
housing supply
•	 Increase capacity of non-profit 
housing providers in the County.
•	 Bring non-profit housing providers 
together to form a community 
of practice. 
Human 
Services and 
Planning & 
Development
Understand 
workforce 
housing needs
•	 Engage large scale employers to 
understand their need for housing 
for workforce.
•	 Connect developers with large scale 
employers to facilitate construction of 
housing to meet needs of workforce.
Economic 
Development
Engage developers 
•	 Engage developers in regular 
conversations through 1:1 interviews, 
focus groups, site visits, policy and 
process review and forums.
Community 
Development 
Office, 
Economic 
Development 
and Planning & 
Development
Consultation & 
Engagement 
14
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
ACTION
DESCRIPTION
LEAD
Encourage 
additional 
residential units
•	 Develop an additional residential unit 
pilot program.
•	 Deliver workshops to promote 
additional residential units.
Human 
Services and
Planning & 
Development
Share information 
about housing need 
in Bruce County
•	 Share information with community 
about the need for housing across 
Bruce County.
•	 Profile tools, resources, services, 
policy and procedures changes to 
impact housing supply and improve 
affordability with stakeholders.
Community
Development 
and Human 
Services
Share information 
with landlords and 
tenants
•	 Provide educational resources for 
landlords and tenants.
Human 
Services
Communicate 
changes that can 
impact supply and 
affordability of 
housing
•	 Provide information to key 
stakeholders about changes in 
provincial and federal legislation, 
policies and programs that impact the 
development and affordability 
of housing.
Community 
Development, 
Planning & 
Development 
and 
Government 
Relations
Advocate to 
other levels of 
government for 
tools and funding 
needed to impact 
housing supply and 
affordability
•	 Advocate to provincial and federal 
governments for funding to meet 
housing needs in Bruce County.
•	 Support advocacy work on housing 
and funding through the Association 
of Municipalities of Ontario, the 
Rural Ontario Municipal Association, 
Ontario Municipal Social Services 
Association and the Western Ontario 
Warden’s Caucus.
•	 Share Bruce County’s work on 
housing with other municipalities 
and levels of government.
Community 
Development 
and 
Government 
Relations
Education, 
Communication 
& Advocacy
15
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Next Steps
Bruce County is well positioned to undertake the actions outlined in this 
Plan. The Housing Cross Functional Team represents the work of multiple 
departments and focuses the County’s organizational capacity to deliver 
on the 25 actions identified in this Plan.
The Bruce County Housing Action Plan outlines actions that will be undertaken between 2024 and 
2026 within areas of County and municipal jurisdiction to create conditions locally to increase the 
supply and impact affordability of housing.
The County and municipalities are working on actions to be responsive to legislative and policy 
changes, as well as program and funding changes that continue to be brought forward by other 
levels of government.
This Plan intends to be flexible to allow staff to prioritize actions that align with any funding 
programs established by the provincial or federal government that increase the supply and 
affordability of housing.
Progress on the actions within this Plan will be reported regularly to Bruce County Council.
The Housing Action Plan will further Bruce County’s Strategic Plan 2023-2026 priority to increase 
housing options and encourage innovative solutions to build a strong and inclusive community.
16
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
 Appendix:
Housing Needs, Affordability and 
Supply in Bruce County: Summary from 
the 2024 Municipal Housing Forum
Housing Need
Like many other communities in Ontario and 
Canada, Bruce County is challenged by the 
rapidly rising cost and availability of housing. 
In 2023, Bruce County undertook a Housing 
Demographic Study to understand the 
County’s changing demographic charac­
teristics, current and future housing supply 
and demand, key housing gaps/issues and 
key factors impacting demand, supply and 
affordability issues.
The study showed average incomes for 
Bruce County residents have increased by 
21% between 2015 and 20201. Bruce County 
also has household incomes that are generally 
higher than the provincial average, with over 
16% of households in the county having 
income over $150,000 compared to 9% 
provincially in 20212.
While this rise in average income is significant, 
the rise in the cost of housing has rapidly 
outpaced income growth in Bruce County, 
and for many residents with lower incomes, 
affordable housing is not available.
1 KPMG. 2023. Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
2 KPMG. 2023. Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
3 KPMG. 2023. Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
4 KPMG. 2023. Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
5 Ministry of Finance Population Projections. 2022.
Between 2016 and 2021, the average monthly 
cost of housing and shelter increased by 10% 
for owner households and 22% for renter 
households in Bruce County3. In 2021, 45% of 
renters spent more than 30% of income on 
housing; and 18% of renters spent over 50% 
of income on housing4. Over the same time 
frame, the price to buy a house increased 
by 76%, considerably higher than the 
59% increase provincially.
The cost of housing creates challenges for 
existing and new residents to the County. It 
makes it more difficult to attract and retain 
workers. It also creates barriers for those who 
wish to downsize or move within the County, 
or those who want to establish their own 
household. With 83% of the County’s housing 
stock in 2021 being single detached homes, 
there is a limited supply of affordable housing 
options currently available for seniors, 
individuals, young professionals, and families.
At the same time, the population of Bruce 
County is growing. The population increased 
by 8.1% between 2016 and 2021 to a total 
of 72,047. The population of Bruce County 
is forecast to increase to 107,846 by 20465. 
Growth will add additional demand for 
housing in the County.
17
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Housing Supply & 
Affordability
The data in this section of the housing action 
plan documents the trends and pressures 
on housing affordability and supply that 
exist in the first quarter of 2024. While this 
data is a snapshot in time—it is important to 
understand the pressures on housing supply 
and affordability in Bruce County.
Current Supply
Data from recent planning approvals and 
construction indicate developers are building 
new units, and seeking approvals on a wider 
variety of housing types than have historically 
occurred in Bruce County. 
Planning approvals include subdivision/
condominium applications and consent 
applications, as well as zoning for multi-
residential units. Over the past five years, 
nearly 41% of planning approvals were for 
multi-residential units. Developers, planning 
staff and Councils in Bruce County are 
working to create more housing options 
to impact the supply and affordability of 
housing to meet the needs of residents 
across Bruce County.
Since 2016, there has been 5,325 residential 
units built across Bruce County, and the trend 
has shown increasing rates of completion. 
The number of new residential units 
completed between 2019 and 2023 are very 
similar to the number of units that have been 
approved through planning applications 
over the same period. This indicates that 
developers, planning staff and Councils have 
facilitated planning approvals to replenish the 
supply of units at a similar rate to the current 
rate of construction of residential units. Staff 
and Council have also been working to create 
more opportunities to create dwelling units 
without the need to seek permission through 
a planning application (as-of-right). 
Planning Approvals in Bruce County
Year
Registered lots/ 
units*
Units approved 
through site-specific 
multi-family zoning**
Total lots/units created 
through planned approvals
2019
234
201
234
2020
300
93
393
2021
375
110
485
2022
497
734
1,231
2023
570
229
799
Total
1,976
1,367
3,323
*Including lots in final plans of subdivision, condominium, consent, part lot control (includes apartments where blocks are included as part of subdivisions). 
**Apartment and townhouse units.
3,323
Housing units approved in Bruce County 
through the planning process (2019-2023).
18
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Between 2019-2023, many of 
the housing completions were 
in the Lakeshore communities 
of Saugeen Shores, Kincardine 
and Huron Kinloss, and 
the inland community of 
Brockton. These faster-growing 
communities are closest to job 
growth within the County.
Housing completions in 
Northern Bruce Peninsula and 
South Bruce Peninsula have 
been influenced by outmigration 
of early retirees6 and remote 
workers from cities in Southern 
Ontario. The County’s Housing 
Demographic Study identified 
sustained population growth in 
the Greater Toronto Area will 
continue to put pressure on the 
County’s housing stock. It also 
noted that construction has 
not kept pace with population 
growth across Bruce County. 
Current 
Affordability
Like many communities over the 
past several years, there has been 
a rapid increase in housing prices 
in Bruce County and surrounding 
region. The peak of the demand 
and cost for housing occurred in 
late 2021/early 2022 during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, when the 
area was influenced by demand 
from those who could move out 
of larger urban centres7. 
6 KPMG. 2023. 
	
Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
7 KPMG. 2023. 
	
Bruce County Demographic Housing Study.
New Residential Units Completed in Bruce CountyThe number of new units increased by nearly 400, from 2022 to 2023. 923 new units were created in 2023. Source: Rural Housing Information System
Residential Average Price in Grey-Bruce-
Owen Sound AreaThe average purchase price peaked in the fall of 2021 at nearly $825,000. The average price in the fall of 2015 was just over $250,000. In fall of 2023 it was over $650,000. Source: The Canadian Real Estate Association
The average purchase price in Grey-
Bruce-Owen Sound in February 2024.
$619,403
19
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Since that time, prices have come down somewhat, with the average purchase price in early 2024 
being $590,270 in Bruce County. The cost of housing in lakeshore municipalities within Bruce 
County has remained high, with inland communities being more affordable. While the price of 
homes is lower now than during the height of the pandemic (2021), higher interest rates continue to 
impact the cost of housing which is anticipated to remain higher than before the pandemic. 
Rental data is limited at a municipal level, but anecdotally, rents in lakeshore communities tend 
to be higher than inland communities. This is in part due to demand for the amenities and 
employment opportunities in lakeshore communities. Rents continue to remain steady, with 
the average rent for all bedroom units in Bruce County being just over $2,000/month.
Residential Rent in Bruce CountyThe average rent for a 3 plus bedroom apartment was over $3000 a month in June 2023. In March 2024, it was just over $2500. 3 plus bedroom units have had more fluctuation in cost over the past year than 1 and 2 bedroom units. Source: Rural Housing Information System
Defining Affordable Housing For Bruce County
There has been considerable conversation in Ontario recently about what is considered 
“affordable” housing.
Within Bruce County, affordable housing is generally considered to be a cost of housing that 
does not exceed 30% of the household income for moderate- and low-income households. More 
specifically, the following definitions are used to define affordable ownership and rental housing:
Affordable ownership housing is: 
A purchase price which does not exceed 30% 
of gross annual household income; and is below 
the 6th decile (moderate and low incomes) for 
household income.
Affordable rental housing is the least 
expensive of:
A rent which does not exceed 30% of gross 
annual household income and for moderate and 
low (below the 6th decile) household incomes; 
or rent is at or below the average market rent 
for Bruce County.
20
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
AFFORDABLE OWNERSHIP 
HOUSING
In 2023, housing ownership 
is considered affordable at 
$377,300, or below in 
Bruce County.
A review of data from the Realtors 
Association of Grey-Bruce-
Owen Sound indicates the 
average housing price in early 
2024 was $590,270. When 
reviewed against household 
incomes, only those in the highest 
earning households or those who 
have built up equity can afford to 
purchase a home in Bruce County.
Affordable Ownership Housing
Affordable Rental Housing
Income 
Group
Decile
Renter 
Household 
Income
Affordable 
Monthly 
Rent
Low
1st
$22,700
$570
2nd
$28,400
$710
3rd
$37,200
$930
Moderate
4th
$49,500
$1,150
5th
$55,500
$1,390
6th
$65,600
$1,640
High
7th
$81,400
$2,040
8th
$102,100
$2,550
9th
$139,900
$3,500
Source: MMAH Provincial Policy Statement Data Tables, 2023
$2,058
The average asking monthly rent in 
Bruce County in February 2042.
AFFORDABLE RENTAL 
HOUSING
In 2023, rental housing is 
considered affordable at $1,383 
per month or below in Bruce 
County (average market rent 
defined by the province).
A review of advertised monthly 
rent for all apartment units in 
Bruce County available to rent 
in early 2024 is over $2,000, 
with only 1-bedroom units being 
close to the price that would be 
considered affordable according 
to the current definitions of 
affordability.
Income 
Group
Decile
Household 
Income
Affordable 
House Price
Low
1st
$32,800
$102,800
2nd
$50,000
$156,700
3rd
$65,100
$204,100
Moderate
4th
$82,000
$256,900
5th
$99,800
$312,600
6th
$120,400
$377,300
High
7th
$149,100
$467,100
8th
$183,500
$574,900
9th
$250,000
$783,300
Source: MMAH Provincial Policy Statement Data Tables, 2023
The average purchase price in 
Bruce County in February 2024.
$590,270
21
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
Workforce & Housing
When considering housing affordability from a workforce perspective, a significant number 
of job postings are placed on the Connect2Jobs, website managed by the Employment System 
Services Manager for the Stratford-Bruce Peninsula economic region (Bruce, Grey, Huron, 
and Perth Counties). 
Based on the wages for the most posted employment opportunities on the Connect2Jobs 
website, 80% of postings do not pay enough to cover affordable rent as defined in Bruce County 
($1,383/month). The most common postings on the Connect2Jobs website are for food service, 
retail, construction labourers, social service, and health care workers. 
The lack of affordable housing has an impact on filling many jobs in Bruce County, as it is hard 
to move to the County for new employment. In recent years, employers are under pressure to 
find housing for workers. One-person households are the hardest to house, and many entry level 
workers rely on forming economic households with roommates or living with family members. 
Multiple incomes are required to pay rent, and many households are spending considerably 
more than 30% of their combined income on housing.
Summary
Housing is a complex issue, which creates challenge for any one level of government to address 
the issue of housing supply and affordability. Solutions require multiple levels of government to 
take coordinated, purposeful action within their jurisdiction.
As the federal and provincial governments use regulation and provide funding for housing and 
infrastructure, it is important for the County, and local municipalities, to take action to create 
conditions locally to increase the supply and impact affordability of housing.
22
BRUCE COUNTY
Housing Action Plan
© 2024 County of Bruce. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form or 
by any means without the written permission of the County of Bruce, Community Development Office.
For more information, please contact:
Community Development Office
housingconcierge@brucecounty.on.ca
Phone: 519-881-1291
Toll free: 1-800-265-3005
www.brucecounty.on.caBruce County
