Public Comments 
From: Dan 
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 10:56 PM 
To: Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub <bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Inquiry S-2021-016 and Z-2021-09 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Hello, 
I would like to know what studies are being performed for this proposal? 
 
My biggest concern is traffic, water pressure, and animal habitat of the field. 
 
The streets are packed with kids playing hockey and basketball, moms walking their babies, dog walkers, 
bikers, and elderly. Is the developer making side walks and claiming the road allowance we have all 
come to know as our front yard? This neighborhood is not designed for an extra 200 cars from 140 tight 
packed houses. Quite frankly it seems this neighborhood is targeting factory workers so it's probable for 
5 cars in one house. We dont know what the r3x and r3y ammendmets are yet. Perhaps an observer 
would like to see how busy it is already trying to turn on to king street. Maybe a police would like to join 
and actually enforce the speed limit. Can we get speedbumps like inverhuron, and make the 21 traffic 
stay on 21.  
 
As for water pressure it's already common knowledge that sometimes the water smells in the morning 
and don't expect a decent shower in the evening. Will the water supply be improved before doubing the 
population of tiverton? 
 
Is the developer aware that there are townhouses in tiverton that have been for sale for 6 years? 
 
No ones against affordable housing but it needs to be properly designed and it seems obvious some rich 
person is trying to cram houses in to a random field 
 
I truly would like an answer to the studies being performed and my comments can be logged 
 
Thanks for your time 
 
Dan 
Elizabeth street 
 
Sent from my Galaxy 
 
 
 
 
From: Ron Davidson <ronalddavidson@rogers.com>  
Sent: Tuesday, April 26, 2022 9:24 AM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>; O'Reilly; Travis Burnside 
<tburnside@cobideeng.com>; Tim Kraemer <tim@futurelawn.ca> 
Subject: Re: Notice of Application 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Phyllis, good morning.  Block 112 will be dedicated to the Town and there will be trails 
constructed through this area, as stated yesterday.  This will be public land and can 
be used by any members of the public, not just the residents of the subdivision. 
 
The easement that you're referring to is for servicing.  That service will be relocated to 
underneath one of the new roads and so the easement will no longer be needed. 
 
There will not be space provided between the new subdivision and the existing 
homes.   
 
Regards, 
Ron 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc. 
265 Beattie Street 
Owen Sound, ON 
N4K 6X2 
Tel:   519 371-6829 
 
 
On Tuesday, April 26, 2022, 08:51:27 a.m. EDT, O'Reilly wrote:  
 
Good morning Mr. Davidson,  
Thank you for your reply. 
From your reply I understand that the “open space” at the northwest end of the subdivision will 
eventually be green space for the 130 units. Is this correct?  
Along the east side of the property there is a municipal drain as well as a historical walking path( 
49 years). Will this be left in place or will the new builds come up to the existing property lines? 
From what I can see in the draft plan there is a space “ subject to easement “ along the existing 
properties before the new lot lines begin. Can you please explain if this is a space that will be 
left between existing and new homes. 
Thank you.  
 Phyllis O’Reilly 
 
 
From: Ron Davidson [mailto:ronalddavidson@rogers.com]  
Sent: Monday, April 25, 2022 2:46 PM 
To: O'Reilly; Coreena Smith 
Subject: Re: Notice of Application 
Phyllis, good afternoon.  During pre-submission discussions, the Municipality advised the owner 
that he will be conveying the large open space area at the north end of the development to 
Kincardine, and that he'll be responsible to costs associated with construction trailers through this 
area. 
There is no need for an open space area along the east side of the property where it abuts the 
existing subdivision. 
Hope this helps. 
Regards, 
Ron 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc. 
265 Beattie Street 
Owen Sound, ON 
N4K 6X2 
Tel:   519 371-6829 
 
 
On Monday, April 25, 2022, 08:30:20 a.m. EDT, Coreena Smith <cjsmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
wrote:  
 
Good morning, 
I have copied the agent on this file who can provide further responses with respect to your 
questions. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
From: O'Reilly 
Sent: Tuesday, April 12, 2022 12:31 PM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: RE: Notice of Application 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Good afternoon, 
I received the files. Thank you. 
 I do not see any green space/ parkland in the plan.  
I cannot tell from the plans if there is a buffer zone between the existing subdivision and the new denser 
subdivision.  
Thank you,  
 Phyllis O’Reilly 
 
 
From: Coreena Smith [mailto:CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca]  
Sent: Tuesday, April 12, 2022 9:58 AM 
To: O'Reilly 
Subject: RE: Notice of Application 
 
Good morning, 
I will be sending through a separate email the file materials for your review.  Please keep an eye out on 
your junk mail for this email (the subject line should read “Incoming File from SendThisFile”). 
If you have any questions or comments after reviewing the materials, please do not hesitate to reach 
out. 
Sincerely,  
 
Coreena Smith  
Senior Planner 
Planning and Development 
Corporation of the County of Bruce 
Office: 519-881-1782 
Direct: 226-909-6305 
www.brucecounty.on.ca  
 
 
From: O'Reilly  
Sent: Monday, March 28, 2022 10:06 AM 
To: Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub <bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Notice of Application 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Good morning, 
I have received a notice of application File numbers S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 regarding a change in my 
neighbourhood. 
The notice states that I can learn more about the application by going to living land-use site. I cannot 
find the file numbers on that site. 
I would like more information on the draft plan of this subdivision.  
On the papers I did receive by mail there does not appear to be any green space, public walks especially 
between existing home and a new higher density subdivision. The material does not explain what R3-x 
and R3-y mean.  
Can you please provide more information or list the files online so they are accessible. 
Thank you. 
Phyllis O’Reilly 
 
 
 
From: Travis Burnside <tburnside@cobideeng.com>  
Sent: Thursday, April 21, 2022 5:11 PM 
To: Ron Davidson <ronalddavidson@rogers.com>; Scott Moorehouse; Coreena Smith 
<CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: RE: File # S-2021-016&Z-2021-092 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Scott 
 
There is an existing storm sewer along the side of your property that currently has an easement over it 
to allow the Municipality to maintain the storm sewer. This storm sewer is proposed to be removed and 
routed along the proposed roads. The easement would then be discharged. 
 
Thanks 
Travis 
 
Travis Burnside, P. Eng. 
Cobide Engineering Inc. 
517 10th Street  
Hanover, ON N4N 1R4 
T +1 519-506-5959 #101 
C +1 519-901-5959 
E tburnside@cobideeng.com  
 
www.cobideeng.com 
 
 
From: Ron Davidson <ronalddavidson@rogers.com>  
Sent: April 21, 2022 2:20 PM 
To: Scott Moorehouse; Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca>; Travis Burnside 
<tburnside@cobideeng.com> 
Subject: Re: File # S-2021-016&Z-2021-092 
 
Scott, good afternoon.   I'm passing your question along to Travis Burnside, the 
Engineer on this project, who will answer the question. 
 
I believe it's an existing servicing easement that will no longer be required once the 
development occurs, but I'll let Travis explain it better. 
 
Regards, 
Ron 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc. 
265 Beattie Street 
Owen Sound, ON 
N4K 6X2 
Tel:   519 371-6829 
 
On Thursday, April 21, 2022, 02:06:05 p.m. EDT, Coreena Smith <cjsmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
wrote:  
 
Scott, 
I have copied the agent on this file to see if he can provide some insight on the easement. 
Sincerely, 
 
 
From: Scott Moorehouse  
Sent: Wednesday, April 13, 2022 7:54 AM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Re: File # S-2021-016&Z-2021-092 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Coreena I have a question regarding a note on the plans , along my property line there is a note 
" Subject to easement" what is this?  
Scott 
 
 
On Tue, Apr 12, 2022 at 2:37 PM Scott Moorehouse wrote: 
 
Received, thank you.  
 
 
On Tue, Apr 12, 2022 at 9:58 AM Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> wrote: 
 
Good morning, 
I will be sending through a separate email the file materials for your review.  Please keep an eye 
out on your junk mail for this email (the subject line should read “Incoming File from 
SendThisFile”). 
If you have any questions or comments after reviewing the materials, please do not hesitate to 
reach out. 
Sincerely,  
Coreena Smith  
Senior Planner 
Planning and Development 
Corporation of the County of Bruce 
Office: 519-881-1782 
Direct: 226-909-6305 
www.brucecounty.on.ca  
 
 
From: Scott Moorehouse  
Sent: Tuesday, March 29, 2022 8:35 AM 
To: Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub <bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: File # S-2021-016&Z-2021-092 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
I received the notice of application for the File # S-2021-016&Z-2021-092 relating to an 
application for a new subdivision for Tiverton. Can I please get a more detailed map plan for the 
area in question and can you please provide the developers name and address?  
 Thanks  
 Scott Moorehouse 
 
 
From: Gisele Trepanier 
Sent: Thursday, June 2, 2022 5:23 PM 
To: Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Re: S16 Z92 Kraemer Public Comment 
 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 
Klarika Thanks for summarizing my comments.Regarding entrance to the proposed subdivision, I would 
think a complete new entrance would be better than using any of the existing routes.I would suggest to 
the township that development of residential homes on prime farmland is a mistake.I would also miss 
this natural habitat.Yours truly Gisele Trepanier. 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
 
On Jun 2, 2022, at 4:31 PM, Klarika Hamer <KHamer@brucecounty.on.ca> wrote: 
  
Hello Gisele, 
Further to our telephone conversation this afternoon, your public comments have been received for file 
numbers S-2021-016 and Z-2021-092. 
I have summarized your comments below, as they relate to the proposed subdivision in Tiverton. 
You are concerned with the increase in traffic and noise that would come from the proposed 
subdivision.  You enjoy the quiet feel of your neighbourhood and are concerned that it will no longer 
exist if the subdivision is developed. 
You have suggested that the entrance would be better if it came off Elizabeth Street 
You are concerned with the well capacity of the new subdivision 
You are concerned that the current Tiverton Water Tower does not have sufficient capacity for the 
proposed subdivision 
You would like to know the ratio of the 130 housing formats 
You are concerned that this new subdivision will lower the value of your property 
Please let me know if the comments above are a good representation of our conversation and your 
concerns for this file. 
Kind regards 
Klarika Hamer  
Applications Technician 
Planning and Development 
Corporation of the County of Bruce 
Office: 519-881-1782 
www.brucecounty.on.ca  
  
 
 
 
 
From: Jim Troyak  
Sent: Sunday, June 12, 2022 8:40 PM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Public submission regarding Tiverton Kramer development S-2021-016 & z-2021-092 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
RE: file number S-2021-016 and Z2021-092 
Date: June 12, 2022 
  
Hello, 
Thanks for the opportunity to provide input into this proposed development. Although I thoroughly 
support the need for more housing and more affordable housing, I have serious concerns about issues 
like safety, traffic and infrastructure with this proposal.  
 
I also find it extremely frustrating when I went to the County webpage to get more information, that 
there was nothing. I understand the accessibility laws, but for public hearings to have public documents 
accessible to NO-ONE… that does not do the public or this process any good. Speaking to a County rep. I 
was emailed the documents but what I received was hundreds of pages of what looked like computer 
code. As a result, this letter and submission is based only on a brief conversation with the County 
official, and from the 3-page notice that was mailed out on May 19.  
 
First, a little about me... I’m on the corner of Conquergood and Elizabeth. I’ve been here only 4 years, so 
I’m still relatively new. I am considering building an addition, perhaps a rental unit or a granny suite on 
my property to help with the problem and also provide a little income into my retirement. After I moved 
into the home, I found out that the property in the field to the West of our neighbourhood was for sale. 
I wasn’t overly worried and figured the worst-case scenario would mean another 50 homes. You can 
imagine my surprise to find out this proposal is far beyond the housing density that I expected was the 
worst-case. As a result, another consideration for me is to sell and get out before this starts - I'm 
weighing my options.  
 
My concerns are as follows:  
 
Traffic and safety  
 
As I write this, there’s a mother and her 2 young kids riding a bike and a scooter past my home on the 
street on Conquergood. This is typical for this small quiet neighbourhood where many young families 
live, where there are no sidewalks, curbs and limited streetlights.  
 
There are only 2 roads to access this proposed development via Elizabeth and Lois. That means, if you 
add 130 new homes with their only access point from Neil and Herbert, you create little chicane race-
track corners, for left and right jogs for all the vehicles coming and going to the new homes to get out of 
the development and to King St.  Average 2 cars per house and you have another 260 vehicles.  There 
are families that live on a number of those corner lots where this traffic must pass through.  
 
We also have a school bus route and a pickup on Conquergood near Neil where about a dozen kids get 
on and off to go to school  
 
In the evening and during the day, you see people of all ages walking the streets, riding bikes, roller 
blading, walking dogs, skateboarding, playing basketball, road hockey, etc. Adding another 260 vehicles 
to this area with limited access routes is deeply concerning.  
 
That doesn’t even address all the construction traffic and heavy machinery that will be coming and going 
during the construction phase. The start time and duration of which, I have no idea, because I couldn’t 
get any of that information.  
  
Density and home values 
 
Is it possible to squeeze any more properties onto that piece of land?  I don’t think so. Maybe if you put 
in a trailer park of high-rise condos. The sheer number of postage stamp sized properties, and multi 
units, smacks of one thing…  developer GREED.   
 
Would anyone try to propose this kind of development in the Mystic Cove area?  I don’t think so.  We’re 
not Mystic Cove, but the existing neighbourhood is ALL single family, fully detached homes on decent 
sized lots. The proposal is all high density, tiny townhomes, multi-units and an overall density that is 
completely incongruous with the existing neighbourhood. 
 
Putting in high density housing will have a negative effect on property values of all surrounding homes. 
If there were executive homes going in, that would increase our property values.  And if the proposed 
development was at least close to the existing density and land-use of the current neighbourhood, that 
would not be a concern that would adversely affect our investments. It would be in line with the existing 
homes and have a neutral impact to property values.   
 
As it is, this development is ridiculous - Greed.  
 
Crime 
 
I have several immediate family members who have served on municipal police forces both as a badged 
officer and in civilian crime data reporting for decades. Where is most of the crime? It’s in high density 
housing developments and it’s exponentially greater with subsidized housing. That is a fact – full stop.   
 
There is nothing to do in Tiverton. The nearest playground is more than a kilometer away by the arena 
and the only time I’ve seen kids on it, is when there are baseball games on. In our existing 
neighbourhood, the road is the playground. That’s where people walk, bike, scooter, skateboard, 
rollerblade, run, play hockey and basketball, but that will change, if another 260 cars have to roll 
through here day in and day out.  
 
If you are going to jam high-density housing into this area, perhaps you could consider some space for 
the social aspects of adding all these people in one congested area. How about a playground or a space 
for a community hockey rink or basketball net to address that need for people to be outside and doing 
things?  I’m sure folks here would rally to support an outdoor rink with volunteers if there was a suitable 
spot.   
 
Infrastructure 
 
For electricity, water, sewage, and even internet… we are at the end of the extension cord in this north 
west corner of Tiverton. If you added a few more homes, it might be adequate. But again, due to the 
high density and numbers of this proposal, the demand on the water, sanitary, sewer and electrical will 
be significant to say the least. Apparently, from my conversation, there are reports that speak to this, 
but since they aren’t accessible to anyone, it seems like a big secret in favour of the developer.  
 
I can tell you that when it comes to internet and TV services, this pocket of the village is pathetic. I have 
never lived anywhere in my lifetime where it was worse. We don’t have Rogers Cable. The Bruce 
Telecom service is pitiful. You can’t get internet TV because the data rates are so abysmal. Bell satellite 
or Shaw satellite are your options for TV service and working from home on the only local ISP option for 
internet is almost futile. Maybe this will improve as the development comes along, but it’s not on the 
County or developer. it’s up to other private companies to decide if it’s worth their 
investment. Something needs to change on this front.  
  
Conclusion  
 
We need more housing, but how about we plan, develop, and create more housing that is in line with 
existing neighbourhoods?  That seems like a reasonable, responsible, and realistic way to plan and 
develop. This proposal is so far beyond the exiting density, it’s shameful. The capability of the existing 
services to support this proposal is questionable. Most importantly, the increased traffic throughout the 
construction phase and for evermore, will create a traffic hazard for everyone who lives in this area on 
the only 2 access points.  The traffic flow is a major problem in my opinion and it’s not something that 
simply adding curbs and sidewalks will fix. That will help with safety, but you still have a problem with 
access into and out, on these left/right chicanes that everyone in the new development will have to use.  
 
I think this development proposal needs a lot of rework to address the following 3 key issues: 
• 
Reduce the number of residences to get the development much closer to the existing 
population density and existing land-use of the surrounding homes.  
• 
Rework, rethink the roadways and traffic patterns for all the construction traffic and residential 
traffic to get in and out of this development.  
• 
Include a common space for a playground, a hockey rink/basketball court. Demonstrate that 
there is some consideration for the social aspects of jamming so many more people into one 
small corner of a tiny village.  
Thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you also to the staff at the County who tried to send 
the planning documents. Although they were completely unreadable when I tried to open them, the 
people I spoke to were very courteous and prompt. I hope to review the actual documentation at some 
point in the near future and connect into the public meeting virtually on the 13th.  
  
Jim Troyak 
 
 
Get Outlook for iOS 
 
 
From: Jim Troyak  
Sent: Thursday, July 14, 2022 10:42 AM 
To: Bruce County Planning - Lakeshore Hub <bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Tiverton development- second submission  
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
RE: file number S-2021-016 and Z2021-092 
Date: July 14, 2022 
Hello again, 
This is a second submission that comes after being better informed, listening in on the public meeting, 
thinking about it, reviewing the planning documents and reports. I get the need for more housing and 
understand the county goals for housing, but this is not well thought out. Near the end of the public 
council meeting, one of the counsellors challenged the developer to have a public meeting to meet with 
residents to listen to our concerns – and his answer…” I don’t know what that would achieve.  They’ll 
just run me out of the neighbourhood.” What does that tell you?  As this proposal stands, it’s a bad idea 
as it is right now.  Perhaps some tweaks and it would be a lot more palatable.  
Here is a summary of issues and some reasonable suggestions on how to make this better.  
Issues: 
Density - The number of dwellings and additional people and vehicles in the area is WAY too much by a 
long shot compared to the existing single-family homes and lot sizes. That is compounded by the poor 
access routes and status of the roads to connect this proposed development to King St.  
Traffic – I think the traffic report is absolute nonsense. Who cares about peak traffic in the morning and 
in the evening, for a couple hours?  I see more than 2 cars per household and if you add 130 homes into 
this field, that’s at least another 260 more vehicles that will be travelling through this neighbourhood 
constantly at ALL times of the day. We don’t have sidewalks, there are no curbs, sewers are in the grass, 
street lighting is lousy, and we don’t have a playground anywhere near here. Come to the 
neighbourhood and look at the access routes in person rather than just looking at a map or a digital 
image.  
The layout of the proposed roads and access routes create more dead ends and concentrates all the 
additional traffic around a couple of corners.  
Safety - The road is the playground for residents and kids in this area. Not only is the amount of traffic a 
concern, the routes in and out of the proposed development are not clean. It’s left, right, left… or right 
left right. Little chicanes, that will become a racetrack around the corners of Lois, Herbert, Conquergood 
and Elizabeth, because the access routes to move all these people and vehicles in and out is not good. 
That doesn’t begin to address all the years of construction traffic that will be coming and going 
throughout the day every day while it’s being built.  
  
How do we get a better proposal and a better development that meets goals and objectives of the 
county and developer while respecting the existing residents? Here are some ideas.  
Given the following: 
• 
We need higher density developments, attainable housing, and that we have a great piece of 
land that’s zoned for higher density residential beyond single family detached homes.  
• 
In this neighbourhood, people walk a lot. Kids ride bikes, scooters, mom’s push strollers, we 
have runners, roller bladers and skateboarders.  Conquergood is quiet street which is conducive 
to using the roadway for outdoor activity.  
• 
We could use curbs and sidewalks on the existing roads to get pedestrians off the roads. The 
drainage to the sewers in the grass might need to be paved to support water running into them, 
rather than pooling on the roads randomly and percolating into the grass and then into the 
drains.  
• 
In the oral submissions at the meeting, one resident suggested that we have an easement on 
the east side of the property up against the existing homes. Many people already walk along 
there and it’s an existing path at the edge of the field. That would help create a much better 
buffer than building one single family dwelling before going to tiny townhouses and multi-units.  
 
Suggestions: 
I think if you rework the road layout and site plan, with a few minor tweaks, you can address a lot of 
concerns and still achieve the county development goals, developer still gets to build lots of homes, and 
this won’t anger the existing residents as much.  
See the attached photo/drawing of a potential site plan with a different road layout.  
• 
There’s an empty property that exists outside of the new development on the SE corner that 
blocks the connection of a road from Conquergood into the new development. There’s a 
pumphouse on the most southern corner of the property. (purple dot on drawing) There is no 
home there. Figure out what the deal is with that land, then use that to extend Conquergood 
back into the new development on the south side.  
• 
Extend Elizabeth into the new development to the back of the property from the NE corner and 
loop that around to connect with the new Conquergood extension on the south end. That little 
corner of the EP area at the end of Elizabeth is not going to make a huge difference in the 
protection of the environment. Look at all the homes on the N side of Elizabeth. They all go way 
back right to a drainage ditch that feeds into that marshy area. That little corner where a road 
would go is not marsh. It’s just dirt.  
• 
Loop Neil and Herbert into the new development and make some duplexes or lower density 
housing in that small inner loop.  
• 
Along the boundary (green line) make a sidewalk for a walking/biking path that goes from the 
north to the south.  
 
By simply redrawing the roads, you change the whole development resulting in:  
• 
Much better traffic flow in and out of the development for the majority of the higher density 
homes to get to King st. 
• 
Share the pain of the additional traffic to ALL the access points from the existing homes, not just 
a couple households where there are Left and Right stop signs at Herbert, Neil and Lois.   
• 
Create loops, rather than more dead ends which makes snow clearing, garbage and recycling 
collection MUCH easier.  
• 
You get a legitimate buffer between existing and new and the higher density homes.  
• 
Existing residents and new residents get a path that also helps with that a buffer and promotes 
recreation and activity that is OFF residential streets.  
 
Seriously… come out and look at the south end of Conquergood and the NW end of Elizabeth. I think you 
will agree that extending those roads is not a big stretch of the imagination. There are certainly other 
ways to redraw the roads, but I think something like the rough drawing I sketched up would address a 
lot of concerns and be much better for everyone involved.  
Thank you 
Jim Troyak 
 
  
 
