County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
1243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin ON N0H 2C6 
brucecounty.on.ca 
226-909-5515 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval  
Plan of Subdivision 
 
The Council of the Corporation of the County of Bruce hereby issues Draft Approval to the 
following application:   
File Number  
 
S-2021-016 
For 
 
 
 
5046373 Ontario Inc. c/o Tim Kraemer 
In Respect Of  
PLAN 210 PT LOTS 59 AND 60;RP 3R8687 PART 3, Municipality 
of Kincardine (Tiverton Village), Roll: 410826000604600  
 
Date of Draft Approval 
As per the County Decision Sheet 
The following conditions have been established by the County of Bruce and must be met prior 
to the granting of Final Approval: 
 
Identification 
1. That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File S-2021-016 for 5046373 Ontario 
Inc. on lands legally known as PLAN 210 PT LOTS 59 AND 60;RP 3R8687 PART 3, 
Municipality of Kincardine (Tiverton Village), prepared by Cobide Engineering Inc. on 
August 2, 2022 (Revision 1).   
 
Lot Layout and Density 
2. That this approval is in accordance with the 'Relevant Site Information’ on the Plan of 
Subdivision, prepared by Cobide Engineering Inc. on August 2, 2022 (Revision 1).   
 
Roads, Grading, Servicing and Open Space 
3. That the road allowances, road widenings, stormwater management block and open 
space blocks shown on this Plan be conveyed free and clear of all encumbrances to the 
Municipality of Kincardine. 
 
4. That any dead ends and open sides of road allowances created by this Plan shall be 
terminated in a 0.3m reserve to be conveyed free and clear of all encumbrances to the 
Municipality of Kincardine. 
 
5. That all roadways, streets, sidewalks, lighting, internal and external services, and any 
upgrades to existing services be designed by a qualified professional and constructed 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 2 of 9 
 
 
by the Owner to the standards of the Municipality of Kincardine and other 
agencies/ministries as required. 
 
6. That lot grading, stormwater management controls, and erosion and sediment controls 
be designed by a qualified professional and implemented by the Owner to the standards 
of the Municipality of Kincardine and other agencies/ministries as required. 
 
7. That all disturbed lots or blocks to be left vacant for longer than thirty (30) days shall be 
graded, seeded and maintained to the satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine.   
 
8. That a trail system be designed by a qualified professional and installed by the Owner to 
the standards of the Municipality of Kincardine and other agencies/ministries as 
required. 
 
9. That the streets shall be named to the satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine. 
 
10. That temporary turning circles or other approved turnarounds shall be installed by the 
Owner, if required by the approved phasing/staging of the subdivision, to the 
satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine.  Provisions for the design, construction, 
and decommissioning of the turnarounds shall be incorporated in the subdivision 
agreement. 
 
11. That all street and public lighting fixtures shall be dark-sky compliant to the satisfaction 
of the Municipality of Kincardine. 
 
12. That the Owner acknowledge that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the 
Municipality of Kincardine to water or sanitary servicing capacity generally. 
 
13. That the stormwater management block be fenced, or an approved alternative means of 
demarcation provided, to the satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine.  
 
14. That the open space blocks be fenced, or an approved alternative means of 
demarcation provided, abutting all residential lots or blocks to the satisfaction of the 
Municipality of Kincardine.  
 
15. That the Municipal wells (Briar Hill Wells 1 & 2) and associated municipally owned lands 
be fenced, or an approved alternative means of demarcation provided abutting all 
residential lots or blocks to the satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine.  
Parkland 
16. That the Owner convey land in the amount required pursuant to the Municipality of 
Kincardine Official Plan for parkland purposes. Alternatively, the Municipality of 
Kincardine may accept cash-in-lieu for said parkland conveyance or a combination of 
parkland and cash-in-lieu to satisfy this requirement under the provisions of 
Municipality’s Official Plan. 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 3 of 9 
 
 
Easements 
17. That the Owner agrees to grant such easements as may be required for utility, 
drainage, snow storage and/or turn-around purposes to the Municipality of Kincardine or 
other appropriate authority.   
 
Subdivision Agreement 
18. That the Owner and its successors enter into an Agreement with the Municipality of 
Kincardine to satisfy all the requirements, financial or otherwise of the Municipality of 
Kincardine, which may include, but shall not be limited to, the provision of parkland (or 
cash-in-lieu of land), roads, installation of services and facilities, lot grading, erosion and 
sediment control, drainage and the timing and payment of a development charge. 
 
19. That the Subdivision Agreement against the land to which it applies shall include a 
clause requiring the Owner to carry out or cause to be carried out the works 
recommended in the roads plan, servicing plan, lot grading plan, erosion and sediment 
control plan, drainage plan, stormwater management plan and other plans, as may be 
required, to the satisfaction of the Municipality of Kincardine. 
 
20. That the Subdivision Agreement against the land to which it applies shall include a 
clause prohibiting the Owner from registering a restrictive covenant under Section 119 
of the Land Titles Act, or any other Act, that would prohibit, restrict or regulate any 
use(s) of the land otherwise permitted via the applicable Zoning By-law and that a Draft 
copy of the Subdivision Agreement be forwarded to the County of Bruce prior to 
registration of the Agreement. 
 
21. That the Municipality of Kincardine undertake to register the Subdivision Agreement 
against the land to which it applies, and a copy of the Agreement be forwarded to the 
County of Bruce prior to Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Utilities 
22. That the Owner provide an overall utility distribution plan to the satisfaction of the 
Municipality of Kincardine including the necessary easements and/or agreements 
required for the provision of utilities. 
 
23. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate electricity 
service provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electricity services to this 
Plan. 
 
24. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate gas 
service provider for the provision of permanent or temporary natural gas services to this 
Plan. 
 
25. That the Owner agree to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of permanent 
or temporary telecommunications and cable services to this Plan. 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 4 of 9 
 
 
 
Canada Post 
 
26. That the Owner consult with Canada Post to determine suitable permanent locations for 
the placement of Community Mailboxes and to indicate these locations on appropriate 
servicing plans. 
 
27. That the Owner confirm to Canada Post that the final secured permanent locations for 
the Community Mailboxes will not be in conflict with any other utility, including hydro 
transformers, bell pedestals, cable pedestals, flush to grade communication vaults, 
landscaping enhancements (tree planting) and bus pads. 
 
28. That the Owner install concrete pads at each of the Community Mailbox locations as 
well as any required walkways across the boulevard and any required curb depressions 
for wheelchair access as per Canada Post’s concrete pad specification drawings. 
 
29. That the Owner agree to prepare and maintain an area of compacted gravel to Canada 
Post’s specifications to serve as a temporary Community Mailbox location.  This 
location will be in a safe area away from construction activity in order that Community 
Mailboxes may be installed to service addresses that have been occupied prior to the 
pouring of the permanent mailbox pads.  This area will be required to be prepared a 
minimum of 30 days prior to the date of first occupancy. 
 
30. That the Owner communicate to Canada Post the excavation date for the first 
foundation (or first phase) as well as the expected date of first occupancy. 
 
31. That the Owner agree, prior to offering any of the residential units for sale, to place a 
"Display Map" on the wall of the sales office in a place readily available to the public 
which indicates the location of all Canada Post Community Mailbox site locations, as 
approved by Canada Post and the Municipality of Kincardine.  
 
32. That the Owner agree to include in all offers of purchase and sale a statement, which 
advises the prospective new home purchaser that mail delivery will be from a 
designated Community Mailbox, and to include the exact locations (list of lot #s) of each 
of these Community Mailbox locations; and further, advise any affected homeowners of 
any established easements granted to Canada Post. 
 
33. That the Owner be responsible for officially notifying the purchasers of the exact 
Community Mailbox locations prior to the closing of any home sales with specific 
clauses in the Purchase offer, on which the homeowners do a sign off. 
 
Phasing and Lapsing 
34. That the Owner agree to phase any development of the Plan in a manner satisfactory to 
the Municipality of Kincardine and the County of Bruce. 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 5 of 9 
 
 
35. The registration of this Plan may proceed in phases, and in accordance with a Phasing 
Plan, acceptable to the Municipality of Kincardine and the County of Bruce. 
 
36. That the Draft Approval for Plan of Subdivision S-2021-016 for 5046373 Ontario Inc. in 
the Municipality of Kincardine shall lapse as follows: 
 
a. For the first phase, three (3) years after the date of Draft Approval unless it has 
been extended by the County of Bruce with the concurrence of the Municipality of 
Kincardine; and 
 
b. For any subsequent phases, five (5) years after the date of Final Approval of the 
preceding phase. 
 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
37. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Municipality of Kincardine that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Municipality of Kincardine Local Official Plan approved 
under the Planning Act. 
 
38. That the County of Bruce be advised by the Municipality of Kincardine that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning Act. 
 
Notices and Warning Clauses 
39. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and its successors and the 
Municipality of Kincardine include the requirement for the following Notice/Warning 
Clauses to be included in offers of purchase and sale for all Draft Approved Lots on the 
Draft Plan as follows: 
 
a. “Stormwater Management Facilities 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater runoff 
on the lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management Plan. No owner of 
any lot shall alter, interfere with, or remove any of the Stormwater Management 
Facilities located within the lot except in accordance with the approved 
Stormwater Management Plan. Changes or alterations to the approved 
Stormwater Management Plan shall require the prior approval of the Municipality 
of Kincardine and acceptance by the Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority." 
 
b. “Stormwater Management Facility 
Purchasers are advised that a municipal stormwater management facility is 
located on Block 111.  The stormwater management facility may be left in a 
naturally vegetated condition and will be accessed by the Municipality of 
Kincardine for maintenance purposes which, from time-to-time, may include 
heavy construction vehicles." 
 
c. “Lot Grading 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 6 of 9 
 
 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an approved Lot 
Grading Plan. No owner of any lot shall alter the grade or place or remove any fill 
material within any yard except in accordance with the approved Lot Grading 
Plan. Changes or alterations to the approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the 
prior approval of the Municipality of Kincardine and acceptance by the Saugeen 
Valley Conservation Authority." 
 
d. “Open Space 
Purchasers are advised that there are open space lands located on Blocks 112 
and 113.  The open space lands will be left in a naturally vegetated condition and 
may contain a trail for public use.  As such, noise and other effects associated 
with trail use activities may be expected during the days and evenings throughout 
the year.  The open space lands and trail will be accessed by the Municipality of 
Kincardine for maintenance purposes which, from time-to-time, may include 
heavy construction vehicles." 
 
e. “Municipal Wells 
Purchasers are advised that a portion of the subdivision is located within the 
Wellhead Protection Area ‘A’ for the Tiverton Drinking Water System (Briar Hill 
Wells 1 & 2).  The municipal wells are located in the southeast corner of the 
subdivision adjacent to Conquergood Avenue and will be accessed by the 
Municipality of Kincardine for maintenance purposes which, from time-to-time, 
may include heavy construction vehicles.  Purchasers are also advised that there 
are restrictions on the storage of specified quantities of fuel and certain 
chemicals within the Wellhead Protection Area ‘A’.  The Risk Management Office 
can be contacted for further information (rmo@greysauble.on.ca)." 
 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
40. That prior to any site alteration/grading or construction on-site, and prior to Final 
Approval of the subdivision by the County, the Owner shall prepare the following 
reports/plans, completed to the satisfaction of the Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority: 
 
a. Final Stormwater Management Report and Plans, and Grading Plans that 
demonstrate compliance with the Environmental Impact Study mitigative 
measures and on-site sediment control measures.  Reporting shall address water 
quality and water quantity for similar pre and post construction hydrology input to 
the north and south watercourses; 
 
b. Sediment and Erosion Control Plans; and  
 
c. Site Plan. 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 7 of 9 
 
 
41. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Municipality of Kincardine 
contain provisions with wording acceptable to the Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority relating to the: 
 
a. Final Stormwater Management Report and Plans;  
 
b. Final Grading Plans; 
 
c. Final Sediment and Erosion Control Plans; and  
 
d. Site Plan.  
 
Bluewater District School Board  
42. That the Owner shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement with wording acceptable to 
Bluewater District School Board to: 
 
a. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that accommodation within a public school operated by Bluewater 
District School Board may include temporary facilities, including but not limited to, 
portable classrooms or directing students to an alternative attendance boundary. 
 
b. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that student busing is at the discretion of the Student Transportation 
Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
 
c. Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective 
purchasers that if school buses are required within the Subdivision in accordance 
with Board Transportation policies, as may be amended from time to time, school 
bus pick up points will generally be located on the through street at a location as 
determined by the Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce. 
 
d. Provide sidewalks and pedestrian linkages throughout the subdivision, to 
promote active transportation and safe walking routes to the satisfaction of the 
Municipality of Kincardine in consultation with the Bluewater District School 
Board. 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
43. That prior to development or site alteration, the Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment 
Office confirm that its interests related to archaeological resource potential and natural 
heritage features in the Plan area have been addressed. 
 
Archaeology 
44. That prior to development or site alteration, the Owner provide to the County of Bruce 
correspondence from the appropriate Ministry confirming that the Archaeological 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 8 of 9 
 
 
Assessment completed for the Plan area has been accepted into the Ontario Public 
Register of Archaeological Reports. 
 
Digital Plan Submission 
45. That prior to Final Approval, the Owner shall submit to the County of Bruce and 
Municipality of Kincardine a digital file of the Plan to be registered in Shapefile (shp) 
format referenced to NAD83 UTM. 
 
Clearance Conditions 
46. That prior to Final Approval being given by the County of Bruce, the County shall 
receive a clearance letter from the following agencies indicating how conditions 
applicable to their authority have been completed to their satisfaction: 
 
a. Municipality of Kincardine (conditions 3 to 22 inclusive, 34, 35, 37 to 39 inclusive 
and 43); 
b. Electricity Service Provider (conditions17 and 23); 
c. Gas Utility Provider (conditions 17 and 24); 
d. Telecommunications and Cable Service Provider (conditions 17 and 25); 
e. Canada Post (conditions 17 and 26 to 33 inclusive); 
f. Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (conditions 40 to 41 inclusive); 
g. Bluewater District School Board (condition 42); and 
h. Saugeen Ojibway Nation (condition 43). 
 
If agency conditions are incorporated into the subdivision agreement, a copy of the draft 
agreement should be sent to them. This will expedite clearance of the Final Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-016, Page 9 of 9 
 
 
General Notes to Draft Approval 
1. It is the Owner’s responsibility to fulfill the Conditions of Draft Approval and to ensure 
that the required clearance letters are forwarded by the appropriate agencies to the 
County of Bruce Planning and Development Department quoting the appropriate 
subdivision file number. 
 
2. Clearance letters are required from the agencies listed under “Clearance Conditions” of 
this approval. 
 
3. Final Approval – An ‘Application for Final Approval’ together with all supporting 
documentation, plans and the required filing fee must be submitted to the County of 
Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and the County of Bruce has 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan, and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. 
 
The number of mylar(s) and white paper prints as required for registration under the 
Registry Act must be submitted to the County of Bruce along with the ‘Application for 
Final Approval’.  
 
We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the County and 
the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any Application. 
 
4. You are advised to consult the Land Registrar for requirements for registration prior to 
applying to the County of Bruce for Final Approval. 
 
5. Inauguration, or extension of a water works is subject to the approval of the Ministry of 
the Environment under Section 52 and Section 53 of the Ontario Water Resources Act, 
R.S.O. 1990. 
 
6. Note that you will not be advised in writing of the lapsing date of the Draft Plan 
Approval. It is your responsibility to provide the approval body with the required 
information and fees to extend this draft approval. Should the information and fees not 
be received prior to the lapsing date, the Draft Plan Approval will lapse. Please note that 
an updated review of the plan and revision to the Conditions of Approval may be 
necessary if an extension is to be granted. 
