  
 
Committee Report 
To: Councillor Steve Hammell, Chair and 
 
Members of the Planning and Development Committee 
 
From:  Derrick Thomson 
Acting Director of Planning and Development 
 
 
Date: September 15, 2022  
 
 
Re: Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-016 (Kraemer)  
Staff Recommendation: 
That Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-016 be approved subject to the Conditions of Draft 
Approval attached; and 
  
That the Secretary-Treasurer of the Land Division Committee be authorized to sign the 
Decision Sheet and the Draft Plan. 
Summary: 
The applicant is proposing to develop a 10.77 ha parcel of land in Tiverton into a residential 
subdivision consisting of 23 single detached dwelling lots; 22 semi-detached dwelling lots; 64 
townhouse dwelling lots; 1 multi-unit dwelling block consisting of approximately 21 
townhouse dwelling units; 1 stormwater management block; 2 open space blocks; and 2 new 
streets.  A total of approximately 130 new residential units are proposed.   
 
The application is being referred to the Committee for a decision due to objections and 
concerns raised by neighbouring landowners. 
Alignment with Guiding Principles: 
 
GOOD GROWTH 
To put growth in the 
right locations with the 
right services 
 
AGRICULTURE 
To support our key 
economies, including 
supporting a thriving 
agriculture community 
 
CONNECTING 
To improve our ability to move 
people, goods, and information 
between communities 
 
HOMES 
To increase the supply  
and mix of homes 
 
BUSINESS 
To create opportunities for a 
diversity of businesses, jobs, 
and employers 
 
COMMUNITIES 
To create wellbeing through 
access to healthy complete 
communities 
 
HERITAGE 
To identify and 
manage our cultural 
heritage resources 
 
NATURAL LEGACY 
To manage natural resources 
wisely for future generations  
 
Not applicable 
Not aligned 
Aligned 
Strongly aligned 
The subject lands are in the north end of Tiverton and designated Residential. This is a 
logical extension of development in the Settlement Area that makes efficient use of land 
and infrastructure. Therefore, the plan is aligned with the Good Growth guiding principle. 
 
The proposed development would increase the supply and mix of homes in this area of Bruce 
County by providing approximately 130 new residential units in single detached, semi-
detached and townhouse dwelling formats. This is strongly aligned with the Homes guiding 
principle.  
 
The proposal is also aligned with both the Heritage and Natural Legacy guiding principles as 
potential concerns about archaeological resources and natural heritage features/functions 
have been addressed through supporting studies and any outstanding agency comments can 
be addressed through the conditions of draft plan approval.   
 
On balance, this proposal is aligned with the Guiding Principles and the Vision of a healthy, 
diverse and thriving future.   
Airphoto 
 
 
Draft Plan (*For Representation Only – Full Draft Plan attached separately) 
 
 
 
Planning Analysis: 
The following section provides an overview of the planning considerations that were 
factored into the staff recommendation for this application, including relevant agency 
comments (attached), public comments (attached) and planning policy sections.  
Efficient Use of Land and Infrastructure 
The subject property is located on the north side of Tiverton within the Settlement Area. 
Most of the property is designated Primary Urban Communities in the Bruce County Official 
Plan and Residential in the Kincardine Official Plan.  The goals and objectives of both the 
County and local Official Plans direct much of the future growth to Primary Urban 
Communities, such as Tiverton, to support the wise use of land and resources and to protect 
agricultural and natural resources.  
Density targets are a tool to achieve the efficient use of land and infrastructure within the 
Settlement Area boundary.  The Bruce County Official Plan and the local Official Plan 
require the residential portion of all multi-unit developments that will be serviced with 
municipal sewer and water to achieve a density of 15 units per gross developable hectare. 
For the subject proposal, a density of approximately 19 units per gross developable hectare 
is proposed. 
The Kincardine Official Plan also states that for new low density residential uses the 
maximum gross density shall be 25 units per hectare for single detached dwellings and 35 
units per hectare for semi-detached dwellings.  The low density component of the proposed 
development is well below theses maximum values (approximately 8 and 9 units per gross 
hectare respectively), noting that the gross density is more difficult to calculate than net 
density when multiple dwelling formats are proposed.  For comparison, the density of the 
adjacent existing neighbourhood of single detached homes is approximately 8 units per gross 
hectare. 
The local Official Plan also identifies a maximum density of 50 units per net hectare for 
medium density residential proposals (e.g., townhouses).  ‘Net density’ means the area of 
the site proposed for development, not including roads, parks, local commercial facilities, 
etc. (this differs from the ‘gross density’ calculation noted above which includes local roads 
and other uses but excludes natural hazards and similar environmental lands).  The medium 
density component of the proposed development is approximately 29 units per net hectare, 
which is below the maximum identified in the local Official Plan.1   
The proposed residential units will be accessed by two new roads to be built to municipal 
standards with intersections at Conquergood Avenue, Neil Place and Herbert Place.  As such, 
the development will use and expand upon the existing municipal street network.   
Similarly, the lands will be connected to existing municipal water and sewer services 
through extension of these services to the site.  Full municipal water and sewage services 
are the preferred form of servicing in Tiverton.  This makes it the appropriate location for a 
new development such as the one proposed.  
                                         
1 The low density component is approximately 15 units per net hectare for the single detached dwellings and 26 units per 
net hectare for the semi-detached dwellings, respectively.  
Some of the neighbouring landowners have expressed a concern with the density of the 
development proposed.  As noted above, density and intensification ensure the efficient use 
of land and infrastructure which is achieved on this site, while meeting the minimum and 
maximum density targets set by the County and Municipality.   
Land Use Compatibility 
Compatibility of the proposed development with adjacent lands has been identified by some 
neighbouring landowners as a concern.   
Most of the subject lands are designated Residential in the Kincardine Official Plan and were 
previously zoned Planned Development (PD) in the Municipality’s Zoning By-law.  The 
Municipality passed a Zoning By-law Amendment (File Z-2021-092) on August 8, 2022, to 
rezone the lands to Residential Three (R3) with special provisions to conform with the 
Residential designation in the local Official Plan. 
The Residential Three (R3) zone permits a broad range of residential uses.  The applicant is 
proposing a mix of single detached, semi-detached and townhouse dwelling units. 
The adjacent lands to the east are within the Settlement Area and zoned Residential One 
(R1).  The Residential One (R1) zone permits single detached dwellings, semi-detached 
dwellings, duplex dwellings and secondary suites.  These neighbouring lands are occupied by 
single-family homes. 
The proposed single detached and semi-detached dwellings are considered a low density 
residential format and compatible with the existing neighbourhood.  The proposed 
townhouse dwellings are considered a medium density development.  The local Official Plan 
states that where new development is proposed adjacent to existing low density residential 
areas, medium density housing shall transition and maintain a low building profile to 
conform visually to the adjacent low rise residential areas.  In this regard, the subdivision 
shows a transition from low density adjacent to the existing neighbourhood to medium 
density in the central portion of the site.  The medium density townhouses are proposed to 
maintain the character of the area as each will be one or two storeys in height.  Adequate 
off-street parking shall be provided with suitable on-site amenity space for each of the 
future residential users.   
For these reasons, the proposed development is considered compatible with the existing low 
density neighbourhood.   
Range and Mix of Housing Types 
The proposed development provides a range and mix of housing types and lot sizes to meet 
the projected requirements of current and future residents.  In this case, single detached, 
semi-detached and townhouse dwelling units are proposed.  Of the approximately 85 
townhouse dwellings shown, 64 units are proposed on individual lots while the remaining 21 
units are proposed in a condominium format on Block 110.   
The proposal meets the County and Municipal target requiring 30% of proposed dwelling units 
to be medium density or higher.  In this case, the townhouse component of the subject 
development represents 65% of the dwelling units proposed.  
The County and local Official Plans also set a target of 30% of new housing to be provided as 
affordable housing.  This is the target for all development across the region and is not 
expected to be met through every site-specific development.  In this case, the agent has 
advised that the dwellings to be constructed within this development will not likely fall 
within the definition of “affordable”, but the 22 semi-detached homes and 85 townhouses 
will be financially “attainable”.    
Opportunities also exist on the site for the creation of secondary suites, which are permitted 
within single detached dwellings, semi-detached dwellings and row dwellings (i.e., 
townhouse dwellings) subject to the specific provisions of the Zoning By-law.  For example, 
the Zoning By-law states that a secondary suite is permitted in a principal dwelling where 
the principal dwelling is located on a separate lot and fronts on a Class One (1) Street.  
Secondary suites can be used for rental purposes or extended family to assist with household 
costs. 
Sewer and Water Services 
Full municipal water and sewage services are the preferred form of servicing in the 
Municipality.  A Functional Servicing Report has been prepared on behalf of the applicant 
which speaks to the proposed services.   
The report establishes that the sanitary sewer system will be sized based on the existing 
conditions at the connection to the Municipal system and the overall expected subdivision 
demands, which are determined by Provincial guidelines.  New sanitary sewers will be 
installed by the developer along the proposed public roads with a connection to the existing 
sewer at Conquergood Avenue.  These sanitary sewers will ultimately be assumed by the 
Municipality.  The report concludes that there is sufficient capacity available to 
accommodate the proposed development.   
As it relates to water servicing, the County received comments from members of the public 
questioning if there is sufficient capacity and pressure available to service the development.  
The Functional Servicing Report identifies that water servicing will be provided by 
connecting to the existing municipal watermain stubs on Conquergood Avenue, Neil Place 
and Herbert Place.  The watermains will be designed in accordance with Provincial 
guidelines, installed by the developer and assumed by the Municipality.  Sufficient water 
capacity is available and has been confirmed by Municipal staff.  Water pressure within the 
system will be confirmed at the detailed design stage to ensure it meets Provincial 
requirements.   
Two options to increase fire flow in the north end of Tiverton were also noted in the report: 
one is to construct a parallel watermain on King Street from Stanley/Cameron Streets to Lois 
Street and the other to fully replace the watermain.  These upgrades are noted in the 
Municipality’s Water and Wastewater Servicing Master Plan.  The Municipality may undertake 
the upgrades itself or through a cost sharing agreement with the developer as part of the 
future subdivision agreement. 
The applicant will be required to prepare detailed servicing plans to the satisfaction of the 
Municipality as a condition of draft plan approval.  
Source Water Protection 
A portion of this property is located within the Wellhead Protection Area A (WHPA-A) for the 
Tiverton Drinking Water System (Briar Hill Wells 1 & 2).  The Risk Management Office 
identified no policies apply to the activities identified in the application, under the 
approved Source Protection Plan for the Saugeen, Grey Sauble, Northern Bruce Peninsula 
Source Protection Region.   
Municipal staff previously identified that the planned roadway extension at Conquergood 
Avenue goes straight over top of the existing municipal well.  Staff also identified that both 
wells on-site have certain space requirements around them that would need to be enforced.  
Staff recommended amendments to the Draft Plan.   
It was later confirmed by the consulting team that there will be adequate space provided 
around both wells within the existing municipally owned lands and the future boulevard.  
The new Street “A” can connect to Conquergood Avenue in this location without an 
amendment to the Draft Plan.  The wells will be marked and buffered from adjacent uses to 
the satisfaction of the Municipality as a condition of draft approval.  Municipal staff are 
satisfied in this regard provided there are no grading impacts to the wells, which can be 
addressed at the detailed design stage prior to final approval.  
Stormwater Management  
To control flooding, ponding, erosion and sedimentation, and to provide protection of water 
resources and natural habitat dependent upon watercourses and other water bodies for their 
existence, the County and local Official Plans require that stormwater management 
strategies be provided for new development in Settlement Areas.  
The Functional Servicing Report and Stormwater Management Report submitted in support of 
the subject applications indicates that most of the stormwater from the development will be 
directed to a proposed stormwater management facility at the north end of the site.   
Municipal storm sewers will be installed by the developer along the proposed streets to 
collect stormwater from minor storm events, which will be directed to the stormwater 
management facility.  Major design storms will be conveyed overland and on road surfaces 
and will also be directed to the stormwater management facility.  The stormwater 
management system will be designed in accordance with Provincial, Municipal and Saugeen 
Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) guidelines and will ultimately be assumed by the 
Municipality. 
SVCA staff requested confirmation from Municipal staff that the proposed outlet for the 
stormwater management facility is sufficient given the intermittent nature of the receiving 
watercourse in this location.  The outlet has been confirmed to be satisfactory based on 
subsequent email correspondence received from Municipal staff.   
Detailed stormwater management plans and calculations will be required to the satisfaction 
of the Municipality and applicable agencies as a condition of draft plan approval.  
Transportation 
Two new internal roads will be constructed on the site to service the development, which 
will connect to the existing municipal road network at Conquergood Avenue, Neil Place and 
Herbert Place.  These roads then connect to King Street, the main north-south road in 
Tiverton, via Lois Street and Elizabeth Street.  A connection via Elizabeth Street to the 
subdivision is not proposed due to the environmental constraints in that area.  The new 
internal roads will be constructed to full Municipal standards by the applicant and ultimately 
assumed by the Municipality.  Private roads are also proposed in Block 110 to service the 
cluster townhouses.  
Neighbouring landowners have expressed concerns with the increased traffic that could be 
generated by the new development.  Of the concerns raised was the increased number of 
vehicles expected on local roads, the lack of sidewalks in the existing established 
neighbourhood, and the speed and volume of existing traffic on King Street. 
One of the objectives of the local Official Plan is to ensure all land use decisions have regard 
to implications on the traffic network.  A Transportation Impact Study was prepared in 
support of the proposed development.  The study concluded that the area intersections are 
currently operating within acceptable levels of service and will continue to operate at 
acceptable levels upon full build out of the project.  The report also concluded that no off-
site remedial measures are required (i.e., a northbound left-turn lane is not warranted on 
King Street at Lois Street under the projected 2028 forecasted traffic volumes).  
Municipal staff have also confirmed that upgrades to Conquergood Avenue have been 
identified in the Municipal 5-year plan subject to budget allocation.  These upgrades would 
include a standard municipal road cross-section with curbs and gutters and a sidewalk on one 
side of the road.  Staff advised that any approved upgrades to Conquergood Avenue would 
also likely include Neil Place, Herbert Place and Elizabeth Street.  These upgrades would be 
implemented by the Municipality, not the developer. 
However, all new roads within the Draft Plan will be designed and built by the developer in 
accordance with Municipal standards, as described above. 
Pedestrian Access and Greenspace 
Complete communities support access to greenspace and opportunities for pedestrian 
movement.   
For this project, the applicant will be conveying Blocks 112 and 113 to the Municipality for 
open space purposes.  Trails are proposed in the northern block, Block 112, and will be 
available for use by existing and future residents.  Preliminary discussions contemplate a 
trail connection to the existing neighbourhood at Elizabeth Street and to the new subdivision 
at the proposed stormwater management block.  These trails will be designed and 
constructed to the satisfaction of the Municipality and other agencies as required (e.g., 
SVCA).   
A trail is not proposed in Block 113 due to limited connection opportunities and the 
topography associated with the valley corridor in that area.  Municipal staff noted that 
should a trail be desired in the future to connect with lands to the south, the parcel 
containing the municipal well could be investigated for that purpose.  This would be beyond 
the scope of the current applications. 
Sidewalks are also proposed throughout the subdivision as is required by the Municipality and 
requested by the Bluewater District School Board. 
Some of the neighbouring residents had suggested the use of the existing easement that runs 
along the eastern property boundary as a trail and buffer to the new subdivision.  The 
consultants have advised that the services in the existing easement will be relocated to the 
road allowances as part of the development.  The easement will no longer be required and 
will be removed from title.  A buffer between the existing single-family homes and the 
proposed development is not deemed necessary as the existing and proposed land uses are 
compatible.  The applicant is also proposing an appropriate transition between the existing 
established neighbourhood and the new development, as discussed above.  The Municipality 
may request screening in this location (e.g., fencing) if it deems it appropriate through 
discussions with the applicant at the detailed design stage.   
Parkland 
Through pre-consultation discussions, Municipal staff indicated that parkland dedication is 
not required in this Draft Plan.  Instead, the applicant will provide the Municipality cash-in-
lieu of parkland dedication.  The Municipality will allocate these funds for parkland 
development purposes for Tiverton and the surrounding area. 
Natural Hazards 
SVCA hazard mapping indicates the subject property is affected by flooding and erosion 
hazards associated with the existing watercourses and wetlands that traverse the site.  The 
watercourses are unnamed tributaries to the Little Sauble River.  The tributary along the 
south property boundary is a permanent watercourse contained within a moderately steep 
confined valley and is subject to erosion.  The tributary along the north property boundary is 
an intermittent feature that traverses a flood prone wetland that contains organic soils not 
suitable for development.   
Provincial and Official Plan policies direct development to areas outside of hazardous lands 
(flooding hazards, erosion hazards, dynamic beach hazards), and hazardous sites (organic 
soils, leda clay, unstable bedrock). 
Currently, the hazard mapping of the Kincardine Official Plan and Zoning By-law do not 
recognize the hazard lands associated with the northern wetland.  However, the southern 
watercourse and stream valley closely reflects SVCA’s hazard mapping, except for minor 
amendments the SVCA recently undertook through the review of this proposal.   
SVCA staff recommended that the development limits be amended to reflect SVCA’s updated 
hazard land mapping (attached to this report).  The applicant has amended the Draft Plan to 
address the SVCA’s comments, which resulted in the enlargement of Open Space Block 113 
and the shortening of Lots 24 to 31 inclusive.  The Zoning By-law mapping has also been 
amended to reflect this change. 
Natural Heritage 
The natural heritage features identified on and adjacent to the site include fish habitat, 
significant woodlands, significant valley lands, and other-unevaluated wetlands.  The Bruce 
County Official Plan and Kincardine Official Plan generally prohibit development within the 
natural heritage features and their adjacent lands unless it has been demonstrated that 
there will be no negative impacts to the natural features or their ecological functions.   
An Environmental Impact Study was prepared in support of the project.  The report 
concluded that with mitigative measures (avoidance of significant features, provision of 
buffers / development setbacks, source water input balance to the two watercourses, and 
stormwater quantity and quality control), the development will result no anticipated 
negative impacts or loss of ecological function to the natural heritage features or ecological 
functions within the study area.   
The report was generally found to be acceptable by SVCA staff, who provide natural heritage 
review comments on behalf of the County.  However, SVCA staff originally noted that the 
proposed development appeared to encroach in some areas within the setbacks 
recommended in the Environmental Impact Study.  The applicant has revised the Draft Plan 
to incorporate the recommended setbacks.  As a result, Open Space Block 112 has been 
enlarged and Stormwater Management Block 111 and Lots 1 to 4 inclusive have been reduced 
in area.  The Zoning By-law mapping has also been amended to reflect this change. 
Archaeology 
A Stage 1 and 2 Archaeological Assessment was prepared in support of the subject 
applications as the lands fall within an area of moderate to high archaeological potential.  
No archaeological resources were identified on the site.  The report concluded that no 
further assessment was required.   
The Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) has expressed an interest in the project due to its 
archaeological potential and its natural heritage resources.  SON has engaged directly with 
the applicant in this regard to facilitate their continued review of the applications.  SON has 
agreed to the inclusion of a condition of draft plan approval to ensure their interests are 
addressed prior to development or site alteration occurring on the site.   
 
A condition has also been added that requires the applicant to provide the County 
correspondence from the Province confirming that the Archaeological Assessment has been 
accepted into the Ontario Public Register of Archaeological Reports. 
Financial/Staffing/Legal/IT Considerations: 
Potential Appeal to the Ontario Land Tribunal. 
 
Report Author: 
Coreena Smith 
Senior Development Planner 
 
Departmental Approval: 
Derrick Thomson  
Acting Director, Planning and Development 
 
Approved for Submission: 
Derrick Thomson 
Chief Administrative Officer 
Appendices 
 County Official Plan Map 
 Local Official Plan Map 
 Local Zoning Map 
 List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Agency Comments  
 Public Notice  
 Public Comments  
 Municipality of Kincardine Meeting Minutes 
 Municipality of Kincardine Resolution 
 Decision Sheet 
 Conditions of Draft Approval 
 Draft Plan of Subdivision 
 
County Official Plan Map (Designated Hazard Land Areas and Primary Urban 
Communities) 
 
Local Official Plan Map (Designated Natural Environment and Residential) 
 
Local Zoning Map (Zoned EP - Environmental Protection and PD - Planned Development) 
 
Amended Local Zoning Map (Zoned EP - Environmental Protection, OS – Open Space, R3aa 
- Residential Three Special, R3ab - Residential Three Special and R3ad - Residential 
Three Special) 
 
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
Original submission: 
 Application 
 Subdivision Application 
 Draft Plan 
 Planning Justification Report 
 Functional Servicing Report 
 Stormwater Management Report 
 Transportation Impact Study 
 Environmental Impact Study 
 Archaeological Assessment 
 
Second submission: 
 Response Letter from the Consultants 
 Revised Draft Plan 
 
Agency Comments 
Municipality of Kincardine: 
Chief Building Official: 
 Connection of Street “A” to Conquergood Avenue is interrupted via Part 1. Street "A" 
will need to be provided with a sufficient turnaround.  
 Further servicing/stormwater management comments to be provided through the 
Municipal Engineer. 
 
Public Works:  
 The planned roadway goes straight over top of the existing municipal well. 
 Both wells on-site at the municipal well station have certain space requirements 
around them that would need to be enforced. The road alignment will need to be 
tweaked or the applicant will need to drill a new well. 
 Total water should not be an issue based on flows from the past year. 
 
Fire Chief:   
 No comment. 
 
(Note: It was confirmed through further discussions between the consultants and Municipal 
staff that there will be adequate space provided around both wells within the existing 
municipally owned lands and the future boulevard.  The new Street “A” can connect to 
Conquergood Avenue.  The street alignment does not need to be amended in this location 
and a turnaround is not required.) 
Bruce County Transportation and Environmental Services:  No comment. 
Historic Saugeen Métis (HSM):  The HSM Lands, Resources and Consultation Department has 
reviewed the relevant documents and have no objection or opposition to the proposed Draft 
Plan of Subdivision and Zoning By-law Amendment as presented. 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON):  SON has expressed an interest in the subject applications 
and has engaged directly with the applicant in this regard.  (Note:  SON has agreed to the 
following condition of draft approval:  That prior to development or site alteration, the 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Environment Office confirm that its interests related to 
archaeological resource potential and natural heritage features in the Plan area have been 
addressed.)  
Hydro One Networks Inc.:  No comments or concerns at this time. This preliminary review 
considers issues affecting Hydro One’s 'High Voltage Facilities and Corridor Lands' only.  For 
proposals affecting 'Low Voltage Distribution Facilities,’ the applicant must consult the local 
area Distribution Supplier. 
Bluewater District School Board (BWDSB):  BWDSB has no objection to this development 
and requests conditions be included as part of the draft approval (full letter attached). Note 
staff has incorporated updated wording for these conditions, developed through discussions 
on other subdivision applications.    
Canada Post:  Canada Post has reviewed the proposal for the above noted development and 
has determined that the completed project will be serviced by centralized mail delivery 
provided through Canada Post Community Mailboxes.  In order to provide mail service to this 
development, Canada Post requests that the owner/developer comply with the conditions 
included in their comment letter (full letter attached).   
Risk Management Office, Source Water Protection:  From the information noted in the 
proposed application for a new planned subdivision on this property, serviced with municipal 
sanitary sewer, storm sewer and watermains, it has been determined that neither section 57 
(Prohibited Activities) nor section 58 (Regulated Activities) applies on the above-noted 
property, pursuant to the Clean Water Act, 2006.  Consequently, no policies apply to the 
activities identified in the application, under the approved Source Protection Plan for the 
Saugeen, Grey Sauble, Northern Bruce Peninsula Source Protection Region (effective July 1, 
2016) (full letter attached). 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA):   
Original comments (April 22, 2022): Full letter attached.  
Revised comments (July 29, 2022): It is the opinion of SVCA staff that the draft plan of 
subdivision revised July 28, 2022 is compliant with both the natural hazard and natural 
heritage policies of the Provincial Policy Statement 2020, local Official Plan, and County 
Official Plan.  Please consider the following proposed conditions on behalf of the SVCA: 
1. That prior to any site alteration/grading or construction on-site, and prior to Final 
Approval of the subdivision by the County, the Owner shall prepare the following 
reports/plans, completed to the satisfaction of the Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority: 
a. Final Stormwater Management Report and Plans, and Grading Plans that 
demonstrate compliance with the Environmental Impact Study mitigative 
measures and on-site sediment control measures.  Reporting shall address 
water quality and water quantity for similar pre and post construction 
hydrology input to the north and south watercourses; 
b. Sediment and Erosion Control Plans; and  
c. Site Plan. 
 
2. That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Municipality of 
Kincardine contain provisions with wording acceptable to the Saugeen Valley 
Conservation Authority relating to the: 
a. Final Stormwater Management Report and Plans;  
b. Final Grading Plans; 
c. Final Sediment and Erosion Control Plans; and  
d. Site Plan. 
 
Regarding the Zoning By-law Amendment, SVCA staff maintains that the decision on this 
application be deferred until item no. 2 from SVCA’s original letter has been addressed (i.e., 
the proposed EP zoning is amended to incorporate both the natural heritage setbacks as 
recommended in the Environmental Impact Study and SVCA’s revised hazard land limit). 
(Note: The Zoning By-law Amendment and schedule were amended per the SVCA’s request.) 
*Agency comments have been incorporated in the Conditions of Draft Approval attached, 
where applicable. 
 
 
