 
 
 
 
1078 Bruce Road 12 | P.O. Box 150 | Formosa | ON | Canada | N0G 1W0 
519-364-1255 | publicinfo@svca.on.ca | www.saugeenconservation.ca 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY (cjsmith@brucecounty.on.ca)  
  
April 22, 2022 
  
County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
1243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin ON  N0H 2C6 
 
 ATTENTION:  
Coreena Smith, Planner 
  
Dear Ms./Mrs. Smith,  
  
RE:  
 
Application for Draft Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-016 
 
 
Application for Zoning By-law Amendment; Z-2021-092 
 
 
Roll No. 410826000604600 
PLAN 210 PT LOTS 59 AND 60;RP 3R8687 PART 3  
Geographic Village of Tiverton 
Municipality of Kincardine________________________________[Davidson Land Use Planning] 
 
 
  
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted applications as per our 
delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards 
identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under 
Ontario Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines 
and Watercourses Regulation).  SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOA) with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, and water 
resources; and the application has also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the Planning 
Act as per our CA Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual, amended 
October 16, 2018. 
 
The purpose of the Draft Plan application is to development a 10.77 ha parcel of land in Tiverton into a new 
residential subdivision comprising of approximately 130 new residential units.  The zoning by-law amendment 
application proposes to re-zone the lands from EP - Environmental Protection and PD - Planned Development 
to EP - Environmental Protection, OS - Open Space, R3-x - Residential Three Special and R3-y - Residential 
Three Special. The details of the zoning by-law amendment, including the proposed special provisions, are 
included in the Planning Justification Report. 
 
Staff have received and reviewed the following documents submitted with this application: 
1) Request for Agency Comments, dated March 22, 2022, 
2) Application for Draft Plan and Zoning By-law Amendment, dated November 29, 2021, 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 2 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
3) Draft Plan of Proposed Subdivision, DWG No. 01884-DP-1, Cobide Engineering Inc., November 10, 
2021; 
4) Natural Heritage Environmental Impact Study, AWS Environmental Consulting Inc., April 2019, 
5) Functional Servicing Report, Cobide Engineering Inc., September 2021, 
6) Planning Report, Ron Davidson Land Use Planning, November 29, 2021; and,  
7) Stormwater Management Report, Cobide Engineering Inc., September 2021. 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
 
In principle, SVCA staff find the proposed development acceptable; however, we recommend the decision for 
these applications be deferred until; 
 
1. The Draft Plan illustrates lot / block lines do not encroach within the (i) natural heritage setbacks as 
recommended in the EIS, and (ii) the SVCA revised hazard lands limit, 
2. The proposed EP zoning is amended to incorporate both the natural heritage setbacks as 
recommended in the EIS and SVCA’s revised hazard land limit; and,   
3. The Municipality of Kincardine confirms the proposed outlet for stormwater is sufficient. 
We elaborate in the following paragraphs. 
 
SITE CHARACTERISTICS 
 
The subject property is approximately 10.77 ha that features approximately 7.5 ha of agricultural field.  There 
are two watercourses on the property, both of which flow from east to west; one is a permanently flowing 
watercourse on the south portion of the property that traverses the bottom of a moderately steep, wooded 
stream valley. The other watercourse is located north of the agricultural field and traverses’ wetlands and 
woodland.  There is a 15 ha woodland north and northwest of the property where a small portion of the 
woodland encroaches onto subject property.  
 
DELEGATED RESPONSIBILITY AND ADVISORY COMMENTS  
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the applications through our delegated responsibility from the Province to 
represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy 
Statement (PPS, 2020).  We have also reviewed the application through our responsibilities as a service 
provider to the County of Bruce in that we provide expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act 
applications with regards to natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources as set out in the PPS 
2020, County Official Plan and/or local official plans.  Comments below only include features/technical 
requirements affecting the property.   
 
Natural Hazards: 
 
SVCA hazard mapping indicates the subject property is affected by flooding and erosion hazards associated 
with watercourses and wetlands.  Both above-noted watercourses are unnamed tributaries to the Little Sauble 
River, where the tributary along the south property boundary is a permanent watercourse contained within a 
moderately steep confined stream valley and is subject to erosion.  The tributary along the north property 
boundary is an intermittent feature that traverses floodprone wetland that contains organic soils not suitable 
for development.  The south tributary and stream valley are identified in SVCA’s hazard land mapping and  
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 3 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
SVCA has engineered floodplain mapping associated with this feature.  SVCA staff undertook a review of the 
hazard mapping for this feature, and we have made amendments to better reflect the erosion hazard.   We  
 
have  also amended SVCA’s wetland/hazard mapping to include the boundaries of the north wetland.  
Attached is a copy of SVCA’s amended hazard lands mapping.  These amendments are not yet reflected on 
SVCA’s mapping website, but we anticipate the changes shortly. 
 
Currently, the hazard mapping of the Municipality of Kincardine’s Official Plan (OP, Natural Environment 
designation) and Zoning By-law (ZB, Environmental Protection zone) do not recognize the hazard lands 
associated with the north wetland; however, the southern watercourse and stream valley closely reflects 
SVCA’s hazard mapping, with exception to the minor amendments we have recently undertaken.  As such, we 
recommend the OP and ZB  hazard mapping for the Municipality be amended to reflect SVCA’s hazard land 
mapping. 
 
The following is a summary of natural hazard policies affecting the property. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 3.1.1 of the PPS, 2020 states, in general, that development shall be directed to areas outside of 
hazardous lands (flooding hazards, erosion hazards, dynamic beach hazards), and hazardous sites 
(organic soils, leda clay, unstable bedrock.). 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) 
 
In general, Sections 5.8.5.1 and 5.8.8.2 of the County OP, as interpreted by SVCA staff, do not support 
new development within lands affected by natural hazards in addition to Section 3.1 of the Provincial 
Policy Statement concerning development and site alterations in hazardous lands and sites. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA staff's opinion, section C2.1.2 of the Kincardine OP does not support development, in general, 
within areas of natural hazards where there is an unacceptable risk to public health, safety or of 
property risk. 
 
Proposed Draft Plan 
 
To conform to the above-noted natural hazard policies we recommend minor amendments to the lot limits for 
Lots 29, 30, and Block 111 to exclude recent SVCA amended hazard lands.  
 
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment 
 
Similarly, to conform to the above-noted natural hazard policies we recommend amendments to the proposed 
EP zone limits adjacent to Lots 29, 30, and Block 111 to confirm to SVCA amended hazard lands. 
 
Should the above recommendations be implemented, it is SVCA staff’s opinion the proposed development 
would be located outside the above-noted natural hazard features and would then be in conformance with the 
natural hazard policies of the Province,  County, and local OP. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 4 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
 
Natural Heritage: 
 
In accordance with the natural heritage policies listed below, the applicant has submitted the above-
mentioned EIS to support the proposed development.  SVCA staff have reviewed and are satisfied with the EIS. 
 
In the opinion of SVCA staff and in accordance with the above-noted Environmental Impact Study (EIS), the 
subject property features fish habitat, significant woodlands, significant valley lands, and other-unevaluated 
wetlands. 
 
The following is a summary of natural heritage policies affecting the property. 
 
Fish Habitat 
 
It is indicated in the EIS that fish habitat is associated with the south tributary to the Little Sauble River, a 
warmwater fishery.   
 
SVCA’s review of Fish Habitat is provided in consideration of the PPS and local policies but does not provide 
clearance on the required statutes or legislation from either the Ministry of Northern Development, Mines, 
Natural Resources and Forestry (MNDMNRF) or the Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO). 
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 2.1.6 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in fish habitat 
except in accordance with provincial and federal requirements; and further that, s. 2.1.8 states 
development and site alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to fish habitat unless the 
ecological function of the adjacent lands has been evaluated and it has been demonstrated that there 
will be no negative impacts on the fish habitat or on their ecological functions. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) 
 
It is SVCA staff's interpretation, s. 4.3.2.1 of the County OP does not permit development within 30 
metres to the banks of a cold water stream or 15 metres of a warm water stream; and that landowners 
are encouraged to forest the area within any stream to maintain and improve fish habitat ecological 
functions of the stream and to increase natural connections. Furthermore, s. 4.3.3 of the OP requires 
that an EIS shall be required for development and site alteration proposed within 120 metres of fish 
habitat. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
Section C2.3.5 of the Kincardine OP, in SVCA's staff's opinion, states that development and site 
alteration shall not be permitted in fish habitat except in accordance with provincial and federal 
requirements; and as per section C2.3.9, in considering new development proposals, the Municipality 
shall require the submission of an analysis that the development will have on fish habitat, with such 
analysis including remedial measures to be undertaken to protect and improve the habitat. 
 
As indicated in the EIS, no development is proposed within 15 metres to the top of bank of the south tributary 
to the Little Sauble River.  Furthermore, it is SVCA staff’s opinion, given this setback combined with standard  
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 5 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
 
erosion and sediment control measures, and stormwater management the applications will be conformance 
with the above-noted fish habitat policies of the Province, County, and local OP.  See below section 
Stormwater Management” for more information. 
 
Significant Woodlands 
 
It is the opinion of SVCA staff and is concluded in the EIS, the subject property features significant woodlands 
and lands adjacent to significant woodlands on both the north and south portions of the property. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 2.1.5 b) of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in 
significant woodlands unless it has been demonstrated that here will be no negative impacts on the 
natural features or their ecological functions; and further that, section 2.1.8 states development and site 
alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to significant woodlands unless it has been 
demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts on the natural features or their ecological 
functions. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) 
 
Section 4.3.2.6 of the County OP, in the opinion of SVCA staff, states that for Townships with less than 
30% forest cover, wood lots of 40 hectares or greater are considered significant.  The woodlands on and 
adjacent to the subject property are under 40 hectares and therefore do not meet the County’s criteria 
for significant determination. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
The Municipality of Kincardine has determined that all woodlands 4 ha or greater in area and all 
woodlands of any size straddling or immediately adjacent to a watercourse are considered significant (s. 
C2.3.7 of the Kincardine OP).  As such, the woodlands on and adjacent to the property are significant in 
conformance with this policy.   It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, Sections C2.3.4 and C2.3.7 of the OP 
states development and site alteration shall not be permitted in significant woodlands or within 120 
metres to significant woodlands, unless it has been demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts 
on the woodland or it’s ecological functions. 
 
In accordance with the above Provincial and Municipal OP policies, the EIS assessed the potential impact of 
development to significant woodlands, and it was concluded that, provided development is located in 
conformance with the recommended setbacks indicated on Figure No. 9 of the report, that the proposed 
should not impact the ecological function of the adjacent woodlands.  Please see the “Environmental Impact 
Study” section of this report for SVCA staff recommendations. 
 
Significant Valleylands 
 
It is the opinion of SVCA staff and is concluded in the EIS that valleyland associated with the south tributary to 
the Little Sauble River is considered significant valleyland. 
 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 6 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
 
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 2.1.5 b) of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in 
significant valleylands unless it has been demonstrated that here will be no negative impacts on the 
natural feature or it’s ecological functions; and further that, section 2.1.8 states development and site 
alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to significant valleylands unless it has been 
demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts on the natural feature or it’s ecological functions. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that section 4.3.2.8.3 of the Bruce County OP states that no development 
or site alteration may be permitted within or adjacent (50 metres) to a significant valleyland unless it has 
been demonstrated through an EIS, carried out by the proponent, that there will be no negative impacts 
on the natural features or the ecological function of the significant valleylands. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, Sections C2.3.4 and C2.3.7 of the Municipality’s OP states development 
and site alteration shall not be permitted in significant valleylands or within 120 metres to significant 
valleylands, unless it has been demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts on the valleyland or 
it’s ecological functions; and where it is demonstrated there will be no hazard to public safety or to 
property damage. 
 
In accordance with the above Provincial, County and Municipal OP policies, the EIS assessed the potential 
impact of development to the significant valleyland, and it was concluded that, provided development is 
located in accordance with the recommended setbacks indicated on Figure No. 9 of the report the proposed 
should not impact the ecological function of the adjacent valleyland.  Please see above “Natural Hazards” 
section of this report regarding the potential erosion hazard and the “Environmental Impact Study” section of 
this report for SVCA staff recommendations. 
 
Other-Unevaluated Wetland 
 
As indicated in the above sections of this report, a wetland has been identified via EIS on the north portion of 
the property within and adjacent to the aforementioned woodlands.  SVCA staff had also confirmed this 
wetland based on a staff site inspection in 2021.  The significance of this wetland has not yet been evaluated 
by the Ministry of Northern Development, Mines, Natural Resources and Forestry (MNDNRF); however, it is 
concluded in the EIS the wetland serves as a groundwater recharge/headwaters feature and ecologically 
supports the adjacent woodlands. 
 
The policies of the Province, County and Municipality do not directly address unevaluated wetlands.  However, 
it is SVCA staff’s interpretation that these features, particularly when associated with groundwater recharge 
areas and natural heritage systems that they be protected.  
 
 
 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 7 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
 
 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1  
 
Section 2.1.1 of the PPS states that the diversity and connectivity of natural features in an area, and the 
long-term ecological function and biodiversity of natural heritage systems, should be maintained, 
restored or, where possible, improved, recognizing linkages between and among natural heritage 
features and areas, surface water features and ground water features. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that section 4.3.2.12.1 of the County OP states that it is the intent of 
County Council to protect headwater areas, groundwater recharge areas and aquifers as one means of 
protecting groundwater and surface water from degradation. In doing so, the County acknowledges that 
comprehensive mapping indicating the location of these areas for the entire County is not available from 
the appropriate Provincial authority. Where mapping or site specific studies or observations for 
headwater areas, groundwater recharge areas is made available by the proponent and/or review 
agencies, new development will be required to demonstrate protection of these sensitive water 
resources and that the associated environment and any water resource uses are not detrimentally 
impacted. 
 
Municipality of Kincardine Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
Section D7.1 of the Municipality’s OP, in SVCA staff’s opinion, states that it is the goal of the Municipality 
to maintain, restore and improve the diversity and connectivity of natural features in an area, and the 
long-term ecological function and biodiversity of natural heritage systems, and to recognize linkages 
between and among natural heritage features and areas, surface water features and ground water 
features.   
 
In accordance with the above Provincial, County and Municipal OP policies, the EIS assessed the potential 
impact of development to the wetland/groundwater recharge feature and it was concluded that, provided 
development is located in accordance with the recommended setbacks indicated on Figure No. 9 of the report, 
and provided a Storm Water Management Plan and Erosion and Sediment Control Plan are implemented that 
the proposed should not impact the ecological and hydrological function of the wetland.  Please see the 
“Environmental Impact Study” section of this report for SVCA staff recommendations. 
 
Environmental Impact Study (EIS) 
 
As previously noted, SVCA staff finds the EIS undertaken by AWS Environmental Consulting Inc., dated April 
2019 acceptable.  It is concluded in the report that “Through this Impact Assessment component, the EIS has 
demonstrated that with the recommended mitigative measures of: Avoidance of significant features, Buffer 
Zone- Development Setback establishment, Source water input balance to the two watercourses, 
SWMP development for water quality and quantity maintenance to provincial standards, development will 
have no anticipated negative impacts or loss of ecological function to the Natural Heritage features or 
ecological functions assessed within the Study Lands.”.  Section 17 of the EIS summarizes the mitigations 
measures and Figure No. 9 demonstrates the recommended natural heritage setbacks. 
 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 8 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
 
Proposed Draft Plan 
 
Based on SVCA staff’s review of the draft plan, it appears proposed lot/block lines encroach within the 
recommended EIS setbacks demonstrated on Figure No. 9 of the report.  It is staff’s opinion, the draft 
plan should be amended to exclude the EIS setbacks from all lot lines to be in conformance with the 
recommendations of the EIS and the natural heritage policies of the Province, County, and the 
Municipality. 
 
Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment 
 
Similarly, it is SVCA staff’s opinion, the proposed EP zoning should be amended to include the 
recommended EIS setbacks as indicated on Figure No. 9 of the report to be in conformance with the 
recommendations of the EIS and the natural heritage policies of the Province, County, and the 
Municipality.   
 
Drinking Water Source Protection / Water resources: 
 
SVCA staff has screened this application to determine the applicability of the Saugeen, Grey Sauble, Northern 
Bruce Peninsula Source Protection Plan, prepared under the Clean Water Act, 2006. The Source Protection 
Plan came into effect on July 1st, 2016, and contains policies to protect sources of municipal drinking water 
from existing and future land use activities.   The subject property appears to SVCA staff to be is located within 
an area that is subject to the local Source Protection Plan where applicable policies may apply.  A separate 
Notice from the local Risk Management Official (RMO) may be required as specified under the Clean Water 
Act, 2006 to allow your project to proceed.  SVCA staff have forwarded this application to Carl Seider (RMO) 
for their information.  Please contact Mr. Seider directly at RMO@greysauble.on.ca for more information on 
the Source Protection Plan policies that may affect your application. 
 
Stormwater Management (SWM):  
 
SVCA staff have reviewed the stormwater management plan to ensure no impact on the control of flooding, 
erosion, pollution or the conservation of land in accordance with our mandate under the Conservation 
Authorities Act and as per our MOA with the County of Bruce regarding water resources.  This includes a 
general review of lot grading and erosion control, water quantity and quality, and impacts to receiving natural 
heritage features.  SVCA staff’s review does not include a detailed technical clearance of engineering 
methodology or modelling. 
 
In general, SVCA is satisfied with the SWM Report, prepared by Cobide Engineering, dated September 2021; 
however, we have the following comments that should be addressed prior to approval of the application for 
draft plan and zoning by-law amendment: 
 
1. The SWM facility is proposed to outlet to the north tributary to the Little Sauble River.  This 
watercourse is intermittent and appears to SVCA as illustrated on aerial photography to feature 
sections of undefined channel outside the property limits.  SVCA staff would like the Municipality of 
Kincardine’s opinion as to whether the proposed outlet is sufficient. 
2. Section 7 of the reports indicate a “Normal “ water quality protection level will be implemented.  SVCA 
staff believes this may be a typo.  Quality control should be to an “enhanced” level as requested by the 
SVCA in previous consultation, and as indicated in the conclusion section 9 of the report. 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 9 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
3. SVCA staff recommend section 9 conclude no proposed structures will be impacted by the 100-year 
storm event. 
 
STATUTORY COMMENTS 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the applications as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation).  This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, 
enables SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland lake 
shorelines, watercourses, hazardous lands and wetlands.  Subject to the CA Act, development taking place 
on or adjacent to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control of flooding, 
erosion, dynamic beaches, pollution or the conservation of land are not affected.  SVCA also regulates the 
alteration to or interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
 
Portions of the subject property are within the SVCA ‘Approximate Regulated Area’ associated with Ontario 
Regulation 169/06.  Included in the regulated area are the watercourses, valleylands, floodplains, and 
wetlands, plus an allowance as defined in the Regulation.  As such, development and/or site alteration within 
this area requires the permission from SVCA, prior to carrying out the work. 
 
“Development” as defined under the Conservation Authorities Act means: 
 
a) the construction, reconstruction, erection or placing of a building or structure of any kind; 
b) any change to a building or structure that would have the effect of altering the use or potential use 
of the building or structure, increasing the size of the building or structure or increasing the number 
of dwelling units in the building or structure; 
c) site grading; or, 
d) the temporary or permanent placing, dumping or removal of any material, originating on the site 
or elsewhere. 
 
And; 
 
“Alteration” as per Section 5 of Ontario Regulation 169/06 generally includes the straightening, 
diverting or interference in any way with a rive, creek, stream or watercourse, or the changing or 
interfering in any way with a wetland. 
 
To determine the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area on the property, please refer to the SVCA’s online mapping 
program, available via the SVCA’s website at http://eprweb.svca.on.ca.  Should you require assistance, please 
contact our office directly.  SVCA’s on-line mapping has not yet been updated to include the amended wetland 
and hazard mapping.  A copy of this mapping will be forwarded to the County as soon as possible to update the 
Municipality’s Natural Environment designation, and EP zoning. 
 
SVCA Permission for Development or Alteration 
 
In accordance with O. Regulation 169/06, proposed development and site alteration within SVCA’s regulated 
lands will require a permit from the SVCA.  This includes site grading/filling and the proposed SWM outlet. 
 
 
 
Municipality of Kincardine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Page 10 of 10 
File No.’s S-2021-016 & Z-2021-092 
April 22, 2021 
 
SUMMARY 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the applications in accordance with our MOA with the County of Bruce and as per our 
mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our regulatory role under the 
Conservation Authorities Act. 
 
SVCA staff recommends that the decision for these applications be deferred until: 
 
1. The Draft Plan illustrates lot / block lines do not encroach within the (i) natural heritage setbacks as 
recommended in the EIS, and (ii) the SVCA revised hazard lands limit, 
2. The proposed EP zoning is amended to incorporate both the natural heritage setbacks as 
recommended in the EIS and SVCA’s revised hazard land limit; and,   
3. The Municipality of Kincardine confirms the proposed outlet for stormwater is sufficient. 
Given the above comments, it is the opinion of the SVCA staff that: 
1) Consistency with Section 3.1, Natural Hazard policies of the PPS has not been demonstrated. 
2) Consistency with Section 2.1, Natural Heritage policies of the PPS has not been demonstrated. 
3) Consistency with local planning policies for natural hazards and natural heritage has not been 
demonstrated. 
 
Please inform this office of any decision made by County and/or Municipality with regard to this application.  
We respectfully request to receive a copy of the decision and notice of any appeals filed. 
 
Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned at b.walter@svca.on.ca 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Brandi Walter 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation 
 
BW/ 
Encl:   SVCA Wetland and Hazard Land Amendments 
 
cc:  
Maureen Couture, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
Bill Stewart, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
Planning Applications Technician, County of Bruce (via email) 
 
Adam Weishar, Director of Infrastructure and Development, Mun. of Kincardine (via email) 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc. (via email) 
 
Carl Seider, RMO (via email) 
  
 
