September 14, 2022 
Bruce County Planning Department c/o Daniel Kingsbury 
Bruce County Council c/o Derrick Thomson and Linda White 
 
Subject:  Subdivision Application #S-2021-006 “Miramichi Shores – Phase 4” 
 
To County Staff: 
This letter is being submitted to you as a formal declaration that in our opinion, Bruce County will be 
negligent in their duties if they proceed with the approval of Subdivision Application #S-2021-006 
“Miramichi Shores – Phase 4”. 
To support our claim, we will address a few of the key issues.  If all aspects of our argument were listed 
in this letter, then it would likely result in a tome.  However, we reserve the right to provide further 
information at a later date and potentially through another avenue of challenge or resolution, as 
required. 
Land Purchase: 
Unlike the residents who purchased early in the development of Miramichi Shores Phases 1-3 or those 
residents who purchased land before Mr. Beiner filed his subdivision application, the current developer 
(and his business partner(s)) knew EXACTLY what land was being purchased from the Estate of the 
previous owner and how they intended to use it.  Therefore, he/they had information at their disposal 
which they chose not to share before many buyers purchased their lots to build their dream homes here 
in Phase 1, 2 or 3.  People, including ourselves, were led to believe (and we have proof of this) that there 
were only a maximum of 3 phases to this subdivision and there was no other official road allowance 
other than the one at the intersection at Miramichi Bay Road.   To make this point clearer, we had NO 
prior knowledge of a possible Phase 4 extension and were obviously lied to and misled in that regard 
when purchasing property. 
 
And considering the fact that the present developer was involved with Mr. Beiner during the 2008 
application process, he had prior knowledge that the Planned Development (PD) parcels of land he 
purchased from Mr. Beiner’s Estate could have been developed using the existing Town street linkages 
of Pine Trail and Shady Lane.  There was absolutely NO need to proceed with this moderately-revised 
application under the previous premise or guise that the land was “land-locked”. That was untrue then 
and remains untrue.  The backroom deal to turn a building lot on Carter Drive into a road allowance was 
just going to make the development of PD land easier for the developer – but that doesn’t make it right.  
So now, does that mean that the remaining parcels of PD land are also going to be treated as land-
locked?  Answer:  No.  They will have to use Pine Trail and Shady Lane just as this application should 
have been forced to do initially.    
 
 
-2- 
 
And, in our opinion, if that is not feasible or to the liking of the developer going forward, then he can 
forgo development of the remaining land zoned as PD.  Simple solution.   
Bottom line, it is not too late to turn the street allowance “stub” back into a building lot on Carter Drive 
when you deny this application. 
Land/Zoning: 
 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Area (SVCA) clearly stated that they would NOT sign off on this application 
if certain parcels of PD land were NOT rezoned to EH status.  Assuming the Town has NOT met their 
obligations in this regard, then it will fall onto Bruce County to ensure this is done PRIOR to giving this 
application final approval.  Failure to do so would be negligent (among other things) on the Town and on 
the County’s part.  And based on previous experience, we believe that a zoning change to EH would 
mean that property owners within a certain radius of this land slated for a zoning change would:  need 
to be notified in writing, have the right to attend a public meeting, and so on.  Since we have NOT yet 
been notified of a public meeting regarding rezoning, then the SVCA’s demand has obviously NOT been 
met and yet you are likely planning to give this application approval imminently.  That would certainly 
show disregard to the SVCA, as well. 
Further to the zoning point, there have been comments made by Town Council and their 
representatives towards the residents of Miramichi Shores Phase 1-3 owners, that once lands are zoned 
as PD then that is their final status.  And for those of us who purchased land in a subdivision where there 
were PD parcels of land in the vicinity of our subdivision (but NOT within our subdivision), then we 
basically “should have known better that they would be developed one day”.  However, in the same way 
lands become PD, they can be rezoned as something else.  Case in point:  The SVCA’s request to turn 
some neighbouring PD land into EH.  In our opinion, all of these PD parcels within Part Lots 55 and 56 
could and should be rezoned as Environmental Hazard (EH) lands.  Some of the logical reasons for this 
are:  the high water table issue, environmental safety issues (ie. septic tanks) and wildlife habitat, to 
name but a few.  Once rezoned as EH, then the entire parcel of land could be transferred by the owner 
to a Nature Conservancy (or some other appropriate organization) to protect the lands instead of using 
it for residential land use.  If the developer continues to conceive project-after-project in an effort to 
create his legacy, then in lieu of cutting down forest for the sake of 14 houses, a donation of forested 
land would be an example of a wisely-chosen gift to leave to the world as his legacy.  And in doing so, 
would help the Town achieve its mandate of saving forested lands. 
 
 
 
 
-3- 
 
Water Table/Site Grading Plans: 
 
Another consideration for NOT approving this application is that the lands (as is found surrounding 
Collard Way and Carter Drive) have an undeniably high water table and should NOT be considered as 
suitable locations for homes with basements and septic systems.  In the past and in the present, the 
Town has been repeatedly negligent in their oversight of house construction and in doing so, have 
allowed homes to be built which do NOT meet the Town’s Site Grading Plans.  So based on the Town’s 
track record to date, there is NO guarantee that going forward, Site Grading Plans will be strictly 
adhered to by:  homeowners, developers, builders, Town Building Officials and related staff.  In other 
words, if it has happened frequently before, there are NO guarantees that the current homeowners in 
Miramichi Shores (Phase 1-3) will NOT be affected by a structure being built in the proposed Phase 4 
section if Site Grading Plans are NOT adhered to and enforced each and every time.  And if negatively 
affected, the Town and the Bruce County will be liable for any adverse effects experienced by those on 
Carter Drive.  (For the sake of this letter, we intentionally did not include Cobide Engineering in the 
liability list as they have already covered themselves from a legal perspective on this issue.) 
Recusals/Conflict of Interest: 
 
There have been recusals (ie. conflict of interest) for the voting rights on this application by the Town 
Mayor and 1 Councillor.  But we do not understand how and why the County still has the right to review 
a process on behalf of the Town and then also have the right to review and approve the same process at 
a County level.  Is this not a conflict of interest?  Where is the peer or external review process?  This 
process, of which you actively participate, would be the equivalent of a Judge acting as the jury in a case 
in the death of his/her own family member and then being in a position to also pass sentence on the 
accused wearing the robes of a Judge.   There should be one independent review completed by the 
Town and an entirely separate one completed by the County.  We are confident when we say that no 
one will honestly, professionally, diligently and accurately assess their own work.  If something was 
missed the first time around, then it will likely be overlooked the second time around and so on.  The 
rose-coloured glasses used during the first review will be the same rose-coloured glasses used during 
any subsequent review.  Therefore this application, as well as any ongoing and future applications, 
needs to be assessed as 2 separate and independent entities and failure to do so is a conflict of interest 
and needs to treated as such. 
Need to Meet Governing Documents: 
While Bruce County (while acting as the Town’s personal Planning provider) has suggested that the 
application has met certain criteria, we will continue to argue that it has NOT met all the criteria.  
External stakeholders’ input (such as Bluewater District School Board, SVCA, Hydro One, etc.) varies 
from one subdivision application to another.  There are no internal checklists used.  There is NO 
consistency to ensure that all subdivisions are expected to meet the same criteria within the Town.  The 
Planning review process is selective and flawed. 
-4- 
 
Another criteria which was not been met is the most obvious one - whether the reviewer is wearing 
rose-coloured glasses or not.  It is clearly stated in black and white print in Town documents, that  
cul-de-sacs will NOT exceed 150m.  This application is admittedly expecting to add over 300m to an 
existing cul-de-sac which is already at approx. 1000m.  For this reason, the application FAILS to meet the 
Town’s criteria and thusly, the County criteria as well.  The County will be negligent in their review 
process if you choose to approve this application without abiding by the approved documents at your 
disposal.    
Fencing: 
 
If this application is approved by Bruce County (including the condition of fencing for Hi Berry Farms) 
then you are, without a doubt, admitting to the world that the fate of fruits and vegetables is of 
paramount importance than the fate of people who reside on Collard Way and Carter Drive.  Your choice 
cannot be made any clearer to you than that.   Are you voting for fruits and vegetables … or for people?   
Accuracy of Reports: 
Some of the documents the developer submitted in support of his application were from 2008.  Does 
County Council typically use documents which are 14 years old on which to base their current decisions?  
As part of your due diligence process, did anyone verify if the information from 2008 was still accurate 
and pertinent?   
If you were an event coordinator for a large event, ie. Calgary Stampede, you would need some kind of 
measuring stick to determine:  how many people would typically attend, how much food would be 
required, how many portable bathrooms would have to be available, how many staff would you need to 
keep the event functioning and so on?  Would you gather your information during a pandemic when 
most people were staying at home and base your decisions on that information?  No.  In doing so would 
mean that your data would be severely skewed and it would not provide you with any accurate 
information to plan and execute your event.  And yet, such is the case with the Traffic Impact Study 
submitted during this application process.  It was completed in October 2020.  To the best of our 
knowledge, there was a pandemic going on at that time.  And if you read the study, it provided data for 
a street that does not yet exist. The report states:  “the proposed development is forecast to generate 
approximately 15 trips during the AM peak hour and 16 trips during the PM peak hour”.   
First of all, the number implies only 1 vehicle per household in Phase 4 which is rather low considering 
we do not have public transit here.  Secondly, the data failed to take into consideration that there are 
currently over 50 homes in Phase 1-3 alone with 2 vehicles on average per home.  So the actual numbers 
of traffic coming and going from our subdivision would be exponentially higher than the additional  
15-16 trips that is projected for Phase 4.   
 
 
-5- 
 
In a typical household, it is more likely that:  2 people per household leave separately and return home 
from work each day.  They also likely make additional trips to:  take their children to after-school 
activities, go out for groceries, attend appointments etc.  What about all the other vehicles that 
constantly come and go from the subdivision:  Canada Post (daily x5 days/week), courier vehicles (daily), 
garbage truck (weekly), recycling (every 2nd week), school buses (twice daily x5 days x 10 months) etc.  
This also does not factor in:  construction and service vehicles, the changes from one time of year to 
another (ie. Summer vs Winter) or the time of week (weekday vs weekend).  Who would accept such a 
flawed report on which to base a decision? 
Another report, that is a mystery of sorts, is the one titled “Septic Suitability Report” which is referred to 
but no one has been able to locate.  So, how can you make a decision on a report that you have not 
seen?  What about the errors on other assorted reports:  “Mary Rose” vs “Mystic Court”, Part Lot 
numbers which seem to change?  It certainly made us question the validity of the information.  But 
perhaps you do not have an issue with outdated and incorrect information on which you plan to base 
your decision. 
Safety: 
While other developers in Saugeen Shores are forced to include secondary access routes (permanent or 
emergency) in their recently-built and/or in future-built subdivisions, the same criteria was NOT forced 
on the developer(s) in our subdivision.  That in itself is an act of discrimination.  Are there not laws about 
discrimination?  If so, the Town and the County are potentially setting themselves up for an 
investigation and/or lawsuit. 
The existing Miramichi Shores subdivision is unsafe because it only has one shared entrance and exit.  
Please note that in 2008, in 2021 and again in 2022 some members of Council indicated their concern 
too about the well-being of residents living where there is only a single point of access.  Since this critical 
safety issue has NOT been addressed at the Town level, then the responsibility shifts to the County level.  
In the County’s application process, which should ensure all checks and balances are considered, 
“safety” and “consistency of subdivision applications”, to name but a few, have NOT been treated 
respectfully, fairly and equally, in our opinion.  By that we mean that Safety is the #1 priority.  Period.  
For all residents.  Period.  No respect has been shown to the issue of safety – which is a core value in life.   
Nor has the existing Miramichi Shores subdivision been treated fairly or equally to other subdivisions 
that the Town or the County has approved, ie. secondary accesses – whether it be on a fully maintained 
road allowance or as an emergency access point.  Have you not yet fully grasped the extent of the 
seriousness of this?  Organizations such as “Public Safety Canada” (obviously a higher level of 
Government than you) would also likely be interested in knowing about these proceedings and how 
residents’ lives are intentionally being put at risk.  After all, one of their core values is “respect for 
people” and the lives of residents of Phases 1-3 are obviously not being respected thus far.    
 
 
-6- 
 
In Summary: 
The public (including ourselves) have voiced their concerns and opinions on this application since it first 
came to light in 2008 and then again in 2021 and we continue to voice concerns going forward.  So the 
Town, as well as the County, cannot say that they do not have enough feedback from the public or that 
they do not fully understand the implications of approving this subdivision plan. 
If Bruce County approves Application #S-2021-006, then we are hereby advising you that: 
 
a) 
as mentioned earlier, we reserve the right to provide further information or take further action  
   
at a later date which could be through another avenue of challenge or resolution.  This may  
   
include involving organizations at a Provincial and/or Federal level. 
b) 
in the event of an emergency whereby we are unable to get out of the subdivision or if  
   
emergency services (ie. fully-equipped/full-size ambulance, fire service vehicles, police 
   
service vehicles, etc.) cannot get into the subdivision because there was no secondary access  
   
provided to Collard Way and Carter Drive, we will take the appropriate legal action against (but  
   
not limited to):  the developer (and related company and its partners), the Town of Saugeen  
   
Shores and Bruce County - because all of those listed had an opportunity to avoid this from  
    
occurring.   
By approving this application, then in our opinion, you are hereby acknowledging that you are accepting 
responsibility on behalf of all those concerned. 
 
Dan and Lynn Staddon 
