 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-367-3040, Fax 519-367-3041, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.svca.on.ca 
 
 
 
 
Watershed Member Municipalities 
Municipality of Arran-Elderslie, Municipality of Brockton, Township of Chatsworth, Municipality of Grey Highlands, 
Town of Hanover, Township of Howick, Municipality of Morris-Turnberry, Municipality of South Bruce, 
Township of Huron-Kinloss, Municipality of Kincardine, Town of Minto, Township of Wellington North, 
Town of Saugeen Shores, Township of Southgate, Municipality of West Grey 
 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY (bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca)  
  
July 19, 2021 
  
County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
1243 Mackenzie Road 
Port Elgin, ON  N0H 2C6     
  
ATTENTION:  
Robyn McIntyre, Planning 
  
Dear Ms. McIntyre,  
  
RE:  
 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
 
 
Roll No. 411044000615301 
Park Lot 55 and 56, Lake Range 
Geographic Township of Saugeen 
Town of Saugeen Shores_______________________________________[Pryde c/o Davidson] 
 
 
  
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted application as per our 
delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified 
in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation).  SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our Memorandum of Agreement 
(MOA) with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources; and the 
application has also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the Planning Act as per our CA 
Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies Manual, amended October 16, 2018. 
 
The purpose of the application is to create a residential subdivision consisting of 14 detached dwelling lots.  A 
Plan of Subdivision, known as Miramichi Phase 4, was previously Draft Approved for these lands in 2009, 
however, it lapsed in 2015.   
 
SVCA staff have received and reviewed the following documents submitted with this application: 
 
1) Draft Plan of Subdivision, Drawing No. 00104-DP1, Cobide Engineering Inc., December 21, 2020, 
2) Environmental Impact Study, WSP, Project No. 201-06434-00, February 22, 2021, 
3) Environmental Impact Study, AWS, January 2006 (for background information), January 2006, 
4) Planning Report, Ron Davidson, February 12, 2021,  
5) Functional Servicing Report, Cobide Engineering, February 2021, 
6) Stormwater Management Report, Cobide Engineering, February 2021; and, 
7) Hydrogeological Report Perforated Storm Sewer Evaluation, Gaman Consultants Inc., January 19, 
2021. 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 2 of 10 
 
RECOMMENDATION 
 
At this time, SVCA staff cannot advise as to the conformity of Application S-2021-006 to the natural heritage 
and natural hazard policies of the PPS 2020, the County of Bruce Official Plan, or the Saugeen Shores Official 
plan.  SVCA staff has concerns that should be addressed specific to the EIS and Hydrogeologic Report.  As such, 
we recommend conditions for draft plan approval to ensure the application conforms to the natural heritage 
and natural hazard policies of the PPS, County Official Plan, and the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan.  
Please refer to the report below for more information.  A summary of recommended conditions for draft plan 
approval are as follows; 
 
Recommended Draft Plan Conditions 
 
i. 
That SVCA is satisfied with the final Environmental Impact Study, Hydrogeological Report, Tree 
Retention Plan, and SWM Report and Engineering Drawings. 
ii. 
That SVCA is satisfied the final site plan / grading plan demonstrates development will occur in 
accordance with the recommendations for mitigation measures outlined in WSP’s Environmental 
Impact Study (February 22, 2021). 
iii. 
That the Subdivision Agreement include conditions implementing mitigation measures outlined in 
the final Environmental Impact Study, Site plan/Grading plan, and Tree Retention Plan to the 
satisfaction of SVCA. 
 
SITE CHARACTERISTICS 
 
The proposed subdivision is in contiguous woodland adjacent to a coldwater watercourse, and features 
wetlands on and adjacent to the development area.  The subject property is underlain by a high groundwater 
table, and there is an existing residential subdivision south of the proposed development.   
 
DELEGATED RESPONSIBILITY AND ADVISORY COMMENTS  
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application through our delegated responsibility from the Province to represent 
provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement 
(PPS, 2020).  We have also reviewed the application through our responsibilities as a service provider to the 
County of Bruce in that we provide expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act applications with 
regards to natural hazards and natural heritage as set out in the PPS 2020, County Official Plan and/or local 
official plans.  Comments below only include features/technical requirements affecting the property.   
 
Natural Hazards 
 
SVCA hazard mapping shows the subject property is entirely affected by hazard lands.  However, based on 
SVCA staff’s onsite observations and review of technical documents submitted with the application, it is our 
opinion, SVCA hazard mapping can be amended to reflect conditions on site.  See attached SVCA amended 
hazard mapping.  SVCA’s hazard mapping includes flooding hazards associated with the watercourse and 
floodprone lands associated with the wetlands.  Wetlands also feature unstable organic soils that are not 
suitable for development (i.e., hazardous sites).   
 
WSP wetland mapping delineated in their EIS shows a portion of wetland – westerly Unit 4 crosses proposed 
Lots 11 – 14.  As such, given organic soils are defined as hazardous sites in the PPS, 2020, SVCA staff does not 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 3 of 10 
 
find proposed development within this wetland unit acceptable, at this time.  SVCA staff requires follow-up 
with the WSP (EIS) and Gaman Consultants (hydrogeologic study) to inquire as to the hydrologic impacts of 
removing this wetland feature for proposed development.  
 
Regarding the remainder of the proposed lots, it appears development is located outside hazard mapping as 
delineated by SVCA. 
 
The following is a summary of Provincial, County, and local natural hazard policies affecting the subject 
property. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020)– Section 3.1  
 
Section 3.1.1 of the PPS, 2020 states, in general, that development shall be directed to areas outside of 
hazardous lands (flooding hazards, erosion hazards, dynamic beach hazards), and hazardous sites 
(organic soils, leda clay, unstable bedrock.) 
 
Bruce County Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that, in general, sections 5.8.5.1 and 5.8.8.2 of the County OP do not 
support new development within lands affected by natural hazards in addition to Section 3.1 of the 
Provincial Policy Statement concerning development and site alterations in hazardous lands and sites. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores (OP) Policies 
 
Regarding the above-noted natural hazard features identified on site, it is SVCA staff’s interpretation, 
section 2.8 and 3.18 of the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan prohibits, in general, development and 
site alteration within hazardous lands. 
 
Additionally, it is SVCA staff’s interpretation a large portion of the proposed development area is located 
within Special Policy Area 4 (SPA 4) of the Town’s OP.  It is recognized, a large amount of the SPA 4 
consists of hazardous lands and sites. High groundwater conditions and complex drainage are common. 
However, section 3.2.4 the Town’s OP policies may support development within the Shoreline 
Residential designation (as is the case with the subject property) in SPA 4 provided the impacts of the 
development on the environment can be minimized, to the extent possible, and surface and sub-surface 
drainage can be addressed.   
 
In general, the proposed draft plan demonstrates a large portion of development is located outside the hazard 
lands as mapped by SVCA, except for Lots 11-14.  To address SVCA staff’s concerns noted-above, staff has 
made recommendations for conditions of draft plan approval to allow staff an opportunity to review the 
hydrologic/hydrogeologic impacts from development within wetland/hazard lands on lots 11-14.  Staff’s 
recommendations for draft approval are outlined in the summary of this report. 
 
Regarding high groundwater conditions found in SPA 4, it is proposed to install a perforated storm sewer below 
the proposed subdivision road to lower the water table.  It is SVCA staff’s understanding perforated storm 
sewers are presently used in nearby subdivisions for the same purpose.  It is SVCA staff’s opinion, it is the 
responsibility of the Town of Saugeen Shores to deem this a suitable method for mitigating the impacts of 
groundwater on structural foundations. 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 4 of 10 
 
Additionally, SVCA staff recommends the Town of Saugeen Shores hazard mapping be amended to match the 
hazard mapping as plotted by SVCA staff.  This should be done after SVCA is satisfied removal of the westerly 
Unit 4 Wetland would not exacerbate existing hazards on site; and that development would not be impacted 
from the proposed.   
 
Natural Heritage 
 
In the opinion of SVCA staff and as demonstrated in the EIS, the natural heritage features located on and 
adjacent to the property are significant woodlands, significant wildlife habitat, fish habitat, habitat of 
endangered and threatened species, and unevaluated wetlands. 
 
As previously noted, the proposed development is located within SPA 4 of the Town of Saugeen Shores, which 
contains policies for natural heritage preservation in addition to the aforementioned natural hazard 
constraints.  Specifically, section 3.20.4.1 recognizes much of this SPA exhibits important natural heritage 
features, such as significant woodlands, significant wildlife habitat, fish habitat, and species of conservation 
concern. The area also represents a substantial portion of the forested and wetland habitats within the 
planning area, as well as provides local connectivity of the natural features.  As such, in accordance with 
section 3.20.4.5 of the Town’s OP the applicant retained the services of WSP to undertake an EIS, in 2020 to 
address impacts of the proposed development on the above-noted natural heritage features.  
 
The following are a summary of Provincial, County, and local natural heritage policies affecting the subject 
property.  
 
Significant Woodlands 
 
The proposed development will affect 3.8 ha of contiguous significant woodland, where approximately 2.9 ha is 
proposed to be cleared for the development.  
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) – Section 2.1  
 
Section 2.1.5 b) of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in 
significant woodlands unless it has been demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts on the 
natural features or their ecological functions; and further that, section 2.1.8 states development and site 
alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to significant woodlands unless it has been 
demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts on the natural features or their ecological 
functions. 
 
Bruce County Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
Section 4.3.2.6 of the County OP, in the opinion of SVCA staff, states that for Townships with less than 
30% forest cover, wood lots of 40 hectares or greater are considered significant. Prior to development 
being permitted in significant woodlands or their adjacent lands the proponent of the development shall 
be required to undertake an Environmental Impact Study; and where it cannot be demonstrated through 
the preparations of an Environmental Impact Study that the proposed development will not impact on 
the habitat/resource function of the wood lot, the development shall be refused. 
 
 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 5 of 10 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that section 3.20.4.5 of the Town’s OP, in general, will support 
development within significant woodlands in the “Shoreline Residential” designation of SPA 4 provided 
an EIS is undertaken in accordance with sections 6.27.4.2 of 6.27.4.3 of the OP, and provided:   
 
1. Flora and fauna species that are endangered, threatened or of conservation concern shall be 
identified and protected, with particular attention to the provincially rare Dwarf Lake Iris. 
2. A tree retention plan shall be completed, with the objectives of minimizing tree removal and 
disturbance, and protecting vegetation communities of conservation concern. To help off-set the 
loss of trees due to development, the tree retention plan shall identify areas where new trees 
will be provided, either on the lands subject to development or on other lands within or near 
SPA (4). The ratio of new trees planted to trees removed shall be at least 2:1. Only those new 
trees for the purposes of restoring and/or establishing natural features habitat, and not for 
landscaping purposes, shall be considered.  
3. In addition to the Stormwater Management Policies of this Plan, it may be required that more 
detailed drainage and/or hydrogeologic information be produced by the proponent, to ensure 
potential on-site and off-site effects are fully addressed. 
4. During the review of development proposals for particular property in the Shoreline Residential 
designation, landowners will be encouraged to transfer ownership or control of the portion of 
the property designated ‘Environmental Hazard’ to a public body or qualified organization to 
ensure long-term preservation and management of the natural features. 
 
Significant Wildlife Habitat (SWH) 
 
SWH has been identified on and adjacent to the proposed development area.  
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) – Section 2.1  
 
Section 2.1.5 d) of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in 
significant wildlife habitat unless it has been demonstrated that here will be no negative impacts on the 
habitat or it’s ecological functions; and further that, section 2.1.8 states development and site alteration 
shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to significant wildlife habitat unless it has been demonstrated 
that there will be no negative impacts on the habitat or it’s ecological functions. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff's interpretation that s. 4.3.2.10.2 of the County’s OP does not permit development within 
significant wildlife habitat; and that s. 4.3.2.10.3 does not permit development within 120 metres of 
significant wildlife habitat unless it can be demonstrated through an EIS that the development will not 
have a negative impact on the habitat or it's ecological functions for which the area is identified. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that section 2.6.4.2 of the Town’s OP, states that development or site 
alteration proposed in or adjacent to significant wildlife habitat is not permitted unless an EIS has been 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 6 of 10 
 
approved by Council which demonstrates that there will be no negative impact on the significant wildlife 
habitat. 
 
Fish Habitat 
 
As confirmed via EIS, the watercourse that runs east to west north of the proposed development area features 
coldwater fish habitat.  SVCA staff review of fish habitat is provided in consideration of the PPS and local 
policies but does not provide clearance on the required statutes or legislation from either the Ministry of 
Natural Resources (MNRF) or the Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO.) 
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) – Section 2.1  
 
Section 2.1.6 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in fish habitat 
except in accordance with provincial and federal requirements; and further that, s. 2.1.8 states 
development and site alteration shall not be permitted on adjacent lands to fish habitat unless the 
ecological function of the adjacent lands has been evaluated and it has been demonstrated that there 
will be no negative impacts on the fish habitat or on their ecological functions. 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, s. 4.3.2.1 of the County OP does not permit development within 30 
metres to the banks of a cold water stream. Furthermore, s. 4.3.3 of the OP requires that an EIS shall be 
required for development and site alteration proposed within 120 metres of fish habitat. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation that Section 2.6.5.1 of the Town’s Official Plan states that where 
development is proposed in a water feature or adjacent to a water feature that has the potential to 
contain fish habitat, an Environmental Impact Statement shall be required: and further that section 
2.6.5.2 requires that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in fish habitat, except in 
accordance with Provincial and Federal requirements 
 
Habitat of Threatened or Endangered Species 
 
Habitat of threatened/endangered species have been identified as being on and adjacent to the subject 
property.  SVCA staff’s review of threatened and endangered species is to identify habitat via screening process 
in consideration of PPS and local policies and to direct applicants to the Ministry of Environment, Conservation, 
and Parks (MECP) for follow-up.  The applicant is encouraged to follow up with the MECP regarding habitat of 
threatened and endangered species on the property. 
 
Provincial Policy Statement (PPS) – Section 2.1  
 
Section 2.1.7 of the PPS states that development and site alteration shall not be permitted in habitat of 
endangered species and threatened species.   
 
 
 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 7 of 10 
 
County of Bruce Official Plan (OP) Policies  
 
It is SVCA staff's opinion, section 4.3.2.7 of the County's OP does not permit development within habitat 
of threatened and endangered species; and that development and site alteration proposed within 50 
metres adjacent will not be permitted unless an EIS demonstrates the proposed will not have an impact 
on the habitat or it's ecological functions. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan (OP) Policies 
 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, section 2.6.3.2 of the Saugeen Shores OP states, in part, that no 
development or site alteration shall be permitted in habitat of endangered or threatened species.  
 
Other Wetlands 
 
As per the EIS, other wetlands (unevaluated wetlands) have been identified on and adjacent to the proposed 
development.  The PPS and Bruce County OP do not have policies for other wetlands.  However, the Town of 
Saugeen Shores recognizes the significance of local wetlands and as such section 2.6.6 of the Town’s OP states, 
in general, that development shall not be permitted within wetlands, and that an EIS shall be required for 
development or site alteration proposed on lands adjacent to wetlands.  
 
Environmental Impact Study (EIS) 
 
As previously noted, the applicant had retained WSP to undertake an EIS in support of the proposed 
subdivision.  SVCA staff was provided an opportunity to review the terms of reference for the proposed EIS 
prior to undertaking the review.  At that time, we had asked for a hydrogeologist to undertake an assessment 
of the proposed perforated storm sewer impacts to the woodlands and wetlands on and adjacent to the 
property.  Staff has reviewed WSP’s EIS and Gaman’s Hydrogeologic Report, however, SVCA staff has concerns 
regarding the EIS and Hydrogeologic Report that should be addressed, prior to final approval of the subdivision.  
Specific concerns include, but are not limited to, impacts to SWH, impacts to the ecological function of the 
significant woodlands, and methodology related to identification/calculation of interior woodland habitat.  As 
such, SVCA staff are not in a position at this time to provide an opinion to the County or Town as to whether or 
not the proposed development is in conformance with the above-mentioned natural heritage policies.  
Therefore, SVCA staff is recommending conditions for draft plan approval found in the summary section of this 
letter approval to ensure the application conforms to the natural heritage policies noted above. 
 
Stormwater Management  
 
SVCA staff have reviewed the preliminary stormwater management plan to ensure no impact on the control of 
flooding, erosion, pollution, or the conservation of land in accordance with our mandate under the 
Conservation Authorities Act.  This will include a general review of lot grading and erosion control, water 
quantity and quality, and impacts to receiving natural heritage features.  SVCA staff’s review does not include a 
detailed technical clearance of engineering methodology or modelling.   
 
In general, the preliminary SWM plan appears acceptable.  However, SVCA staff asks to review the final SWM 
plan/grading plan and engineering drawings to ensure the impact to the  receiving watercourse is mitigated 
and that development will not be impacted by the above-mentioned natural hazard features.  As such, we are 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 8 of 10 
 
recommending conditions for draft plan approval to ensure SVCA is satisfied with the above.  Recommended 
conditions for draft approval can be found in the summary section of this report. 
 
Water Resources 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the Hydrogeological Report for the perforated storm sewer system with regard to 
impacts on the adjacent natural heritage features.  In general, SVCA is satisfied with the report.  However, we 
have questions that should be addressed prior to final approval of the subdivision.  Specifically, SVCA would like 
for the hydrogeologist to address the hydrologic/hydrogeologic impacts of filling in the westerly wetland of 
Unit 4.  As such, we are recommending conditions for draft plan approval in this regard, which can be found in 
the summary section of this report. 
 
Additionally, SVCA staff has screened this application to determine the applicability of the Saugeen, Grey 
Sauble, Northern Bruce Peninsula Source Protection Plan, prepared under the Clean Water Act, 2006. The 
Source Protection Plan came into effect on July 1st, 2016 and contains policies to protect sources of municipal 
drinking water from existing and future land use activities.   The subject property appears to SVCA staff to be is 
located within an area that is subject to the local Source Protection Plan where applicable policies may 
apply.  A separate Notice from the local Risk Management Official may be required as specified under the Clean 
Water Act, 2006 to allow your project to proceed.  SVCA staff have forwarded this application to Carl Seider 
(RMO) for their information.  Please contact Carl Seider (RMO) directly for more information on the Source 
Protection Plan policies that may affect your application. 
 
STATUTORY COMMENTS 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed the application as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation).  This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, 
enables SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland lake 
shorelines, watercourses, hazardous lands, and wetlands.  Subject to the CA Act, development taking place 
on or adjacent to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control of flooding, 
erosion, dynamic beaches, pollution, or the conservation of land are not affected.  SVCA also regulates the 
alteration to or interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
 
Portions of the subject property are within the SVCA ‘Approximate Screening Area’ associated with Ontario 
Regulation 169/06.  Within this screening area is a watercourse, wetlands, and their associated flooding 
hazards and hazardous sites.  Watercourses, floodplains, and wetlands, plus their adjacent lands as defined in 
O. Regulation 169/06 are SVCA regulated areas.   As such, development and/or site alteration within SVCA’s 
regulated area requires the permission from SVCA, prior to carrying out the work 
 
“Development” as defined under the Conservation Authorities Act means: 
 
a) the construction, reconstruction, erection or placing of a building or structure of any kind; 
b) any change to a building or structure that would have the effect of altering the use or potential use 
of the building or structure, increasing the size of the building or structure, or increasing the number 
of dwelling units in the building or structure; 
c) site grading; or, 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 9 of 10 
 
d) the temporary or permanent placing, dumping or removal of any material, originating on the site or 
elsewhere. 
 
And; 
 
“Alteration” as per Section 5 of Ontario Regulation 169/06 generally includes the straightening, 
diverting or interference in any way with a rive, creek, stream, or watercourse, or the changing or 
interfering in any way with a wetland. 
 
To determine the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area on the property, please refer to SVCA’s online mapping 
program, available via the SVCA’s website at http://eprweb.svca.on.ca.  Should you require assistance, please 
contact our office directly.  
 
SVCA Permission for Development or Alteration 
 
Prior to any construction, site grading and filling, and alteration to the watercourse (i.e., SWM outlet works) 
within the aforementioned SVCA regulated areas, permission from SVCA must be obtained via application.  
Submitted plans and reports (construction drawings, stormwater management report, grading plan, EIS, 
hydrogeological review) must demonstrate the proposed to will not have an impact on the control of flooding, 
erosion, pollution, or the conservation of land in order for SVCA staff to find the proposed acceptable.  The 
aforementioned reports will be required (in addition to a completed application form and fee submission) to 
SVCA staff’s satisfaction in order for SVCA staff to deem the application complete. 
 
Furthermore, SVCA staff recommend SVCA’s regulated area be identified on the final site plan/grading plan.  
Staff will provide the regulated area mapping to the applicant’s consultant upon request. 
 
SUMMARY 
 
SVCA staff has reviewed this application in accordance with our agreement with the County of Bruce and as per 
our mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our regulatory role under the 
Conservation Authorities Act. 
 
At this time, SVCA staff cannot advise as to the conformity of Application S-2021-006 to the natural heritage or 
natural hazard policies of the PPS 2020, the County of Bruce Official Plan, or the Saugeen Shores Official plan.  
SVCA staff has concerns that should be addressed specific to the EIS and Hydrogeologic Report.  As such, we 
recommend conditions for draft plan approval to ensure the application conforms to the natural heritage and 
natural hazard policies of the PPS, County Official Plan, and the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan.   
 
Recommended Draft Plan Conditions 
 
1. That SVCA is satisfied with the final Environmental Impact Study, Hydrogeological Report, Tree 
Retention Plan, and SWM Report and Engineering Drawings. 
2. That SVCA is satisfied the final site plan / grading plan demonstrates development will occur in 
accordance with the recommendations for mitigation measures outlined in WSP’s Environmental 
Impact Study (February 22, 2021). 
 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: S-2021-006 
July 19, 2021 
Page 10 of 10 
 
3. That the Subdivision Agreement include conditions implementing mitigation measures outlined in the 
final Environmental Impact Study, Site plan/Grading plan, and Tree Retention Plan to the satisfaction of 
SVCA. 
 
Provided SVCA’s recommendations for conditions of draft approval are implemented and provided SVCA is 
satisfied with the final plans/reports above, it is the opinion of SVCA staff that:  
 
1) Consistency with Section 3.1, Natural Hazard policies of the PPS could be demonstrated. 
2) Consistency with Section 2.1, Natural Heritage policies of the PPS could be demonstrated. 
3) Consistency with local planning policies for natural hazards and natural heritage could be 
demonstrated. 
 
Please inform this office of any decision made by the County with regard to this application.  We respectfully 
request to receive a copy of the decision and notice of any appeals filed. 
 
Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Brandi Walter 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation 
 
BW/ 
cc:  
Daniel Kingsbury, Planner, Cty. of Bruce (via email) 
 
Jay Pausner, Supervisor – Development Services, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning (via email) 
Cheryl Grace, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
Mike Myatt, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-364-1255, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.saugeenconservation.ca 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY (bpryde@bmts.com)  
  
April 4, 2022 
  
Miramichi Shores Land Development Ltd. 
c/o Brad Pryde 
10 Collard Way, Box 1725 
Port Elgin, ON  NOH 2C0 
 
  
Dear Mr. Pryde; 
  
RE:  
 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: Miramichi Shores Phase 4 – S-2021-006 
 
 
SVCA Review of Technical Submissions 
Roll No. 411044000615301 
Park Lot 55 and 56, Lake Range 
Geographic Township of Saugeen 
Town of Saugeen Shores_______________________________________________________ 
  
As per your request, Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff have reviewed the following with 
regard to the above-noted subdivision as follow-up from our February 18, 2022, letter. 
 
1. WSP Letter, dated March 22, 2022, 
2. Stormwater Management Addendum 2 Report, revised March 2022; and, 
3. Revised Drawings, 00104-C4 (September 30/21) 00104-C5 (Sept 30, 2021), 00104-TP1 (February 16, 
2021).  
Based on staff’s review of the above, we offer the following comments that have been incorporated into WSP’s 
‘Response Table‘ for ease of reference (attached).  Provided you have no concerns with SVCA’s 
recommendations in items no. 6 (i) and 7 below, SVCA staff would be satisfied with the Environmental Impact 
Study, Hydrogeologic Report, and Stormwater Management Report submissions to date. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment and for your cooperation in this matter.  Please note, SVCA staff 
has provided comments for the proposed based on a review of technical submissions received to date and 
resource information that is currently available. There is no guarantee these comments will remain unchanged 
should formal Planning Act application/submission change significantly from what is currently proposed. 
 
Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Brandi Walter 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation  
Miramichi Phase 4 
April 12, 2022 
Page 2 of 2 
 
 
BW/ 
 
Encl: 
Response Table, SVCA February 18, 2022 letter 
 
cc:  
Daniel Kingsbury, Planner, Cty. of Bruce (via email) 
 
Jay Pausner, Supervisor – Development Services, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning (via email) 
Cheryl Grace, SVCA Member (via email) 
Dave Myette, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1 of 8 
   
SVCA Comment (February 18, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
Environmental Impact Study 
 
1 
Regarding Significant Wildlife Habitat (SWH) - Candidate Bat Maternity 
Colonies, Woodland Area- Sensitive Bird Breeding Habitat, and Habitat for 
Special Concern and Rare Wildlife Species, WSP has not concluded that the 
removal of 3.2 ha of woodland would not impact the populations of these species 
inhabiting the SWH. Rather, they note removal of the forest cover/ interior habitat 
for the subdivision is justified given there will be remaining habitat north of the 
proposed subdivision. While this point is factual, it is not concluded whether there 
will be a population decline from the loss of habitat. SVCA staff recommends 
WSP clarify the potential for population decline based on habitat loss of forest 
cover and interior habitat, and to provide a statement as to whether SWH will be 
impacted based on the above. Designating offsite lands for protection associated 
with these features is not acceptable to SVCA staff. Onsite protection measures 
could be proposed. 
A response to this comment has been addressed in the body of the letter. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
2 
Significant woodlands criteria are premised on its ecological function in 
supporting woodland interior, proximity to other woodlands/habitats, linkages, 
water protection, and woodland diversity. One of the Town of Saugeen Shores 
criteria (as per the Town of Saugeen Shores Significant Woodlands Study, 
October 2012) for identifying the subject woodland as significant is its size and 
associated interior habitat (based on 100 metres from the woodland edge.) Given 
the proposed development will reduce the size of interior woodland habitat by 
approximately 14% (according to SVCA staff calculations using 100 metres from 
woodland edge), SVCA staff asks for clarification from WSP as to how the 
proposed subdivision will not impact this particular ecological function 
(supporting woodland interior habitat), in addition to addressing item No. 1) 
above for supporting SWH. 
A response to this comment has been addressed in the body of the letter. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
3 
WSP has provided correspondence from the Ministry of Environment, 
Conservation and Parks (MECP) regarding Habitat of Endangered and 
Threatened Species, where MECP is satisfied the Endangered Species Act has 
been addressed. 
Noted. 
No further comments. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2 of 8 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
4 
The EIS has concluded the proposed removal of the westerly portion of the Unit 
4 wetland is considered acceptable because they state this portion of wetland 
does not feature significant ecological function. 
Although, it may be acceptable from an ecological perspective to remove this 
feature, SVCA staff has concerns with regards to the hydrologic impact and 
policy restrictions that need to be addressed. See below sections – 
‘Hydrologic/Hydrogeologic Study’ and ‘Policy Conformance for Proposed 
Wetland Interference/Infilling’ for more information. 
See the response to Comment 8 below regarding the hydrologic impact of 
filling in the wetland. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
Tree Retention Plan 
 
5 
WSP has proposed 25% tree retention within the subdivision, whereas, in SVCA 
staff’s experience, 30% tree retention has been proposed and found acceptable for 
the majority of subdivisions within the Town of 
Saugeen Shores (TOSS) of late. SVCA asks for clarification from WSP as to why 
25% is proposed over 30% tree retention, and we ask for specific reference to 
Provincial guidance, if applicable. 
The present owner of the property and the proponent for the proposed 
subdivision has provided the following information to us: 
 
As you know, this project was previously draft plan approved and was moving 
towards registration until the previous owner fell ill and allowed the draft 
plan to lapse. I decided to keep the subdivision plan as previously approved 
as all of the survey bars were still in place. I was contemplating revising the 
subdivision plan to expand the limits of the subdivision into the remaining 
lands that were zoned Planned Development and to reduce the lot frontages 
similar to what was recently approved for the Lakeside Woods subdivision. 
This would've increased the number of lots and increased the density which 
seems to be a desire of the town, county and provincial planning policies. I've 
attached the zoning bylaw that is presently in effect for this property. If the 
conservation authority does insist on the 30%, I will have to reconfigure the 
subdivision plan by extending the lots into the areas presently zoned Planned 
Development. I would also then revise the tree retention plan.  The net result 
would be increased lot sizes, 30% tree retention and most notably a potential 
for more trees to be removed. I really don't want to do this as I would like to 
try to keep the “footprint” similar to what was previously approved. 
 
Further, it is noted that Block 17 (8.445 ha) will serve as a conservation 
easement.  This area is currently treed and and is the location of trails that 
have a temporary trail agreement between the Town and the present owner. 
With the approval of the subdivision, the owner plans to place a conservation 
easement over the entirety of Block 17 and enter into an agreement with the 
municipality for a permanent trail system within the lands owned by the 
developer. 
SVCA staff are satisfied with response.  No further comment. 
6 
It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, section 3.20.4.5 a) iii) of the TOSS 
Official Plan (OP), in general, will support development within 
With regards to the 2:1 tree replanting, the owner notes the following: 
 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
significant woodlands in the “Shoreline Residential” designation of SPA 4, provided 
an EIS is undertaken in accordance with section 6.27.4 of the OP. Section 3.20.4.5 a) 
iii) of the OP states: 
 
“A tree retention plan shall be completed, with the objectives of minimizing tree 
removal and disturbance, and protecting vegetation communities of conservation 
concern. To help off-set the loss of trees due to development, the tree retention plan 
shall identify areas where new trees will be provided, either on the lands subject to 
development or on other lands within or near SPA (4). The ratio of new trees planted 
to trees removed shall be at least 2:1. Only those new trees for the purposes of 
restoring and/or establishing natural features habitat, and not for landscaping 
purposes, shall be considered.” 
 
(i) Regarding the required 2:1 ratio for tree planting, SVCA staff do not see on the 
Tree Retention Plan (TRP), the number of quantity of trees proposed to be removed 
compared to the number of trees proposed to be replanted to conform to the TOSS 
2:1 ration.  SVCA staff asks for this to be clearly defined on the proposed Tree 
Retention Plan. Additionally, it is SVCA staff’s opinion the 2:1 ratio should not 
include the area required for driveways. 
Within the Special Policy Area of the town's official plan, there have been a 
number of subdivisions that have been approved within the Woodlands.  It is 
our understanding that only one subdivision (Pegasus Trails) was required to 
address section 3.20.4.5 a) iii) of the town's official plan.  The conservation 
authority for Pegasus Trails requested that a cash in lieu payment be 
provided to the conservation authority in the amount of $750 per acre for 
trees that were to be removed as per the tree retention plan that was approved 
by the conservation authority for Pegasus Trails. All other subdivisions 
within the Woodlands, to our understanding, were not required to either plant 
trees or provide cash in lieu payments. 
 
In speaking with the owner of the proposed subdivision, he offers that the 
area in the northeast corner of the subject property that is presently zoned 
Planned Development be rezoned to Environmental Hazard.  The 
approximate size of this area is 2.5 ha. and would be approximately the 
same area as the trees removed from the proposed subdivision. 
 
The developer will agree to a cash-in-lieu payment even though a number of 
other previous developments within the woodland area were not required to 
do this. 
SVCA staff are satisfied with response.   
 
SVCA does not currently have a cash-in-lieu policy.  SVCA staff would be satisfied with 
proposal to rezone the northeast corner of the subject property that is presently Planned 
Development to Environmental hazard.  We will recommend to the County that this be 
done prior to SVCA signing off of recommended condition no. 1 of our July 19, 2021 letter 
(attached). 
Furthermore, section 6.27.4.2 f) of the OP states: 
“An Environmental Impact Statement shall be prepared in accordance with the 
requirements of this Section and shall include a description of….A Management Plan 
identifying how the adverse effects will be avoided or minimized over the 
construction period and the life of the undertaking and how environmental features 
and functions will be enhanced where appropriate and describing the net effect of 
the undertaking after implementation of the Management Plan. The Management 
Plan shall also establish mitigation measures including the limits of buffers and 
setbacks adjacent to watercourses, waterbodies, valleys, significant wetlands and 
vegetation to protect the natural feature and its attributes and/or function from the 
effects of development;” 
 
(ii) In general, between the proposed TRP and the EIS, it is SVCA staff’s 
opinion, the above policy is generally met. However, it is not clearly 
Enhancement activities are usually carried out to improve an area that may 
not provide natural habitat conditions, such as a former pit or other disturbed 
landscape. Removal of existing natural habitat to provide a theoretically man-
made superior habitat, is not generally recommended.  In the case of the site, 
the entire property is treed such that enhancement activities may not be 
feasible; however, as per comment No. 6 (above), the owner is prepared to 
provide a cash-in-lieu payment to achieve a 2:1 ratio equivalent. 
 
A draft of the Environmental Management Plan is attached for your review. 
SVCA staff are satisfied with the response.  We will leave it to the Town of Saugeen 
Shores staff/planner to address this policy if they have concern. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4 of 8 
 
 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
summarized on either the TRP or EIS how the environmental features and functions 
will be enhanced with a description of the net effect of the undertaking after 
implementation of the Management Plan. SVCA staff asks for this to be addressed. It 
is our opinion, the EIS should include a section or addendum that specifically 
addresses a proposed Management Plan in accordance with the above policy. 
(iii) Furthermore, we recommend WSP or Cobide provide for 
recommendations as to who and when the proposed Management Plan will 
be implemented. 
 
 
7 
It is SVCA staff’s experience, given the TOSS does not have a Tree Cutting By-law, 
that enforcement of a TRP is difficult. Encroachment by landowners is inevitable 
and tree cutting and/or clearing for residences/accessory structures larger than is 
supported by the TRP will occur. Once SVCA staff have provided our 
recommendations to the County/TOSS regarding TRP’s, our advisory role is 
complete when final approval is obtained; after which, enforcement of the TRP is 
the Town’s responsibility. SVCA staff asks for clarification from either the Town 
and/or County as to how the TRP can be managed for the long – term. 
SVCA staff will forward a copy of this letter to the Town/County for their opinion on 
this matter. 
The present owner of the property and the proponent for the proposed 
subdivision has provided the following information to us: 
 
Though we acknowledge your concern regarding this, based on our 
observations of what has happened in other wooded subdivisions between 
Port Elgin and Southampton, the tree retention plans for each subdivision in 
general has been adhered to for the most part. The existing Miramichi 
Shores subdivision (Phases 1 -3) does not have an approved tree retention 
plan.  Other than a couple of lots within this existing subdivision, the 
landowners have taken upon themselves to protect trees where possible. The 
owners of the two lots that clear-cut their property, have been subject to 
criticism by existing residents within the subdivision.  It's our opinion that 
the best policing related to this matter are adjacent residents.  The owner 
would welcome any further recommendations that the town or county may 
have to ensure tree retention. 
 
Further, it is noted that the ‘Architectural Guidelines and Community 
Design’ document in which each new owner must review, and sign contains a 
clause with respect to tree retention. The ‘Tree Retention Vision’ section of 
the document will state the following: ‘Each landowner is required to adhere 
to the Tree Retention Plan’ and will reference the final Tree Retention Plan. 
Respectfully, SVCA staff disagree.  Environmental Impact Studies are undertaken to 
review and mitigate impact to natural heritage features on and adjacent to a 
proposed development, which need to be adhered to for the long term.  Tree removal 
from landowners after a subdivision lots are sold are in conflict with mitigation 
measures such as Tree Retention Plans.   
 
It is SVCA staff’s recommendation, in the absence of a municipal tree cutting by-
law, that the tree retention areas at the rear end of the lots could be rezoned to 
Environmental Hazard to protect the natural area and that the Tree Retention Plans 
be registered on title for all future landowner’s information.   
 
As such, similar to comment no. 5 above, and if the Town is amenable, we will 
recommend to the County that this be done prior to SVCA signing off of 
recommended condition no. 1 of our July 19, 2021 letter (attached); and we will make 
a recommendation that the Tree Retention Plan be registered on title.   
Hydrologic / Hydrogeologic Study 
 
8 
As per Gaman Consultants August 16, 2021 letter, they have indicated that 
infilling the westerly Unit 4 wetland with native permeable soils should not have 
an adverse effect to post-development recharge rates. SVCA are satisfied with 
Gaman’s conclusion with respect to post- 
development recharge. However, SVCA staff also requires an assessment 
The approximate infill volume required is 616 m3 for the westerly Unit 4 
wetland. The lot grading has been designed such that the majority of the run-
off will be accommodated within the road allowance via overland flow and 
through the proposed storm sewer. All roof leaders will be installed so they 
drain to the rear of the properties to allow for infiltration. 
Addressed.  No further comments. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 5 of 8 
 
 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
of the potential flood storage capacity of the existing wetland (to be removed) for all 
storm events up to and including the Hurricane Hazel Flood Event Standard; and 
whether infilling the wetland will create increased flooding on adjacent lands. 
Additionally, a statement from Gaman is required on the potential increase to 
downstream flows of the watercourse resulting from diverting water normally stored 
in the wetland to concentrated flow downstream. 
 
 
The above information is required to demonstrate the proposed infilling will not 
exasperate existing flood hazards, create new flooding hazards, or create new 
erosion hazards on the downstream sections of the receiving watercourse and 
adjacent lands. This information will be required to support your subdivision 
application and your SVCA application under Ontario Regulation 169/06. 
However, the results may not necessarily guarantee approval by the SVCA based 
on item number 18 below. 
The westerly Unit 4 wetland infill location has an area of 0.16 ha and 
requires an approximate infill volume of 616 m3. Once the wetland area is 
filled, it will be graded to drain the surface water that was previously 
collected within it west towards the new street to be constructed within the 
subdivision. The largest volume of surface water to be displaced from the 
wetland will occur during a 100 year - 6 hr. storm event. Assuming a 100 
mm depth of rain (ie. ~ 100 yr. storm) falling over the surface area of the 
wetland during a single storm event, the total amount of surface water that 
will be displaced is approximately 160 m3 (1600 m2 x 0.1 m). Ignoring 
infiltration and evapotranspiration, this volume of surface water is 
considered to be the maximum amount expected to drain onto the new street 
and eventually into the downstream watercourse during a storm event. 
 
The surface water that is being displaced from the wetland has been 
accounted for in the post development grading design. The design of the 
proposed storm sewer system has also included this area in the pipe sizing 
calculations. Any surface water that exceeds the capacity of the storm sewers 
will drain safely downstream along the street corridor to the cul-de- sac and 
then into the downstream watercourse. 
 
Based on this review, it can be concluded that there will be no negative 
flooding impact on adjacent lands due to the infilling of the wetland area. The 
small increase in the volume of surface water that will now be discharging into 
the downstream watercourse will not create any new erosion hazards either as 
the peak flow from the catchment area located upstream of the subdivision 
will still be significantly higher than the peak flow from the subdivision 
catchment area. The stormwater channel from the end of the storm sewer pipe 
to the watercourse will be stabilized with rip- rap to prevent erosion. Rip-rap 
will flare out to create a flat area at the downstream end in order to disperse 
and reduce the velocity of the stormwater prior to discharging into the 
watercourse. 
 
9 
It is recommended in Gaman’s August 2021 letter to mitigate the potential loss of 
groundwater recharge post-development that roof leaders should be directed to the 
rear of the lots so water can infiltrate into the ground; and they further recommend 
the infiltration areas should be located beyond the zone of influence illustrated for 
the perforated storm sewer (PFF). SVCA staff advises, the proposed lot grading 
plan, drawing  
Attached is an updated Lot Grading Plan providing additional details 
regarding the proposed groundwater recharge measures to be implemented. 
 
All roof leaders are to be directed to the rear lots. The note on drawing 00104-
C4 Lot Grading Plan has been revised to reflect this change. All roof leaders 
can be directed outside of the zone of influence as shown on drawing 00104-
C4 Lot Grading Plan. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6 of 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
00104-C4 notes only roof leaders for lots 11 – 14 will be directed to the rear yard. 
However, in accordance with the above recommendation, the zone of influence in 
relation to the proposed location for roof leader drainage for all the lots should be 
demonstrated on the grading plan or separate site plan. 
 
 
10 
Page 17/18 of Gaman’s hydrologic/hydrogeologic report for the 
subdivisions proposed ‘Permit to Take Water”, January 31, 2021, advises that 
groundwater and surface water levels should be monitored during dewatering of the 
site; and that post construction monitoring should continue until groundwater levels 
rebound by 80%. SVCA recommends that a plan as to who and when this will be 
undertaken and included in the subdivision agreement. 
MECP issued Permit To Take Water #1081-C5DJRA.  Section 4 of the 
PTTW describes the monitoring requirements for the site. The PTTW 
references the GAMAN Hydrogeological report for monitoring.  Baseline 
water levels will be documented before monitoring begins and should 
continue for a week after dewatering ceases.  Groundwater monitoring is to 
be documented at the site wells until 80% rebound if a local water supply is 
impacted by dewatering as stated in the GAMAN January 2021 Miramichi 
Shores Hydrogeological Report. 
Satisfactory response.  No further comment. 
Stormwater Management Report and Engineering Drawings 
 
11 
In general, SVCA staff are satisfied with the above-noted Stormwater 
Management Report; however, we do have the following concerns that should be 
addressed; 
 
The erosion and sediment control notes in sections 6.1 and 6.2 should be 
included as ‘Notes’ on the Erosion and Sediment Control drawing. 
Updated engineering drawings have been provided addressing this issue. 
 
Please refer to drawing 00104-C5 Signage and Erosion and Sediment 
Control Plan where notes have been added to include section 6.1 and 6.2 
from the Stormwater Management Report. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
12 
It should be concluded in the report that the site grading plan has been designed 
so that proposed residences will not be flooded for all storms up to and 
including the 100-year event. 
Please refer to section 4.4 Overland Flow in the revised Stormwater 
Management Report. 
Addressed.  Nor further comment. 
13 
The lot grading plan or a separate site plan for draft approval should indicate the 
limits of the cone of influence from the perforated sewer pipe in relation to the siting 
of proposed residences and their roof leaders in accordance with item number 9 
above. SVCA staff further recommend proposed residences do not have basements 
given the high groundwater table in the area and that this also be noted on the 
grading plan/site plan. 
Please refer to drawing 00104-C4 Lot Grading Plan which shows the extent 
of the zone of influence. The drawing ‘Notes’ have been revised to include a 
recommendation from Cobide Engineering Inc. regarding basements. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
14 
SVCA staff notes the proposed stormwater outlet ditch does not have 
rip rap along the full length of the ditch, up to and including outlet at the waters 
edge. SVCA asks for clarification from Cobide as to why this is the case and if 
they have determined via modelling that there would be 
Please refer to drawing 00104-C2 Plan and Profile Sta. 0+000 to Sta. 0+260 
which shows the entire ditch to have rip rap. 
Addressed. No further comments. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7 of 8 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
no erosion of the outlet channel over the long term and during storms up to and 
including the 100-year event. 
 
 
15 
It is proposed to install an Oil/Grit Separator (OGS) to achieve an enhanced level 
of treatment for stormwater in addition to lot conveyance measures. However, 
SVCA staff cannot locate on the drawings as to where the OGS will be located. 
We further recommend an OGS maintenance plan be included in the SWM 
report. 
Please refer to drawings 00104-C1 General Servicing Plan and 00104-C2 Plan 
and Profile Sta. 0+000 to Sta. 0+260 which shows the location of the Oil/Grit 
Separator (OGS) at the end of the proposed cul-de-sac (Mary Rose Court). 
The OGS Operations and Maintenance Manual has been included in the 
revised Stormwater Management Report as Appendix E. 
Addressed.  No further comment. 
Additional Comments: 
 
16 
There are several recommendations in the EIS and hydrologic/hydrogeologic studies 
that must be implemented to ensure the proposed subdivision will not impact natural 
heritage features and surface/groundwater resources. It is SVCA staff’s 
recommendations all the mitigation measures should be summarized in one 
document so that these measure can be easily referenced in the conditions for draft 
plan approval and final subdivision agreement. 
Acknowledged. 
 
A draft of the Environmental Management Plan is attached.  Additionally, 
natural environment mitigation have been summarized into a single 
document. 
Addressed. No further comment. 
Policy Conformance for Proposed Wetland Interference/Infilling: 
 
17 
Section 2.6.6 of the TOSS Official Plan (OP) states the following: 
 
Wetlands are defined as lands that are seasonally or permanently flooded by 
shallow water as well as lands where the water table is close to the surface; in either 
case the presence of abundant water has caused the formation of hydric soils and 
has favoured the dominance of either hydrophytic or water tolerant plants. Specific 
areas shall be identified or confirmed as wetlands by the Town, in consultation with 
the appropriate authority (Section 2.6.1). 
 
Development or site alteration shall not be permitted within any wetlands (Section 
2.6.6.3.) 
 
Where development or site alteration is proposed on lands adjacent to a wetland, 
an Environmental Impact Statement shall be required (Section 2.6.6.4.) 
 
It is proposed to remove a small section of the westerly unit 4 wetland to 
accommodate the proposed development; specifically, Lots 11 to 14. 
However, the above TOSS policy does not indicate an acceptable minimum 
In WSP’s experience, determination of permissible wetland removals is based 
on the potential loss of wetland function in terms of habitat (among 
hydrological considerations), rather than size alone. It is noted that the 
provincial Ontario Wetland Evaluation system protocol does not map 
wetlands less than 0.5 ha in size unless the feature is determined to be 
ecologically important, therefore the function criteria may play a larger role 
in determining Significance of a wetland than size alone. 
 
Approximately 4.1 ha of wetland occurs within the subject property of which 
0.16 ha is proposed for removal. The 0.16 ha area (Unit 4) is described as a 
Red Maple-Conifer Organic Mixed Swamp (SWM5-1).  The unit was narrow 
and linear with an open canopy.  The feature was determined to provide 
limited ecological function and does not function as a wetland linkage as the 
feature terminates at the rear of an existing residential lot.  The Lake Fringe 
Sub-watershed Report Card scores an ‘A’ grade for wetland cover, suggesting 
that wetland communities are not limited in the broader landscape. 
WSP response is reasonable.  We have no further comment.  SVCA staff will leave it to the 
Town of Saugeen Shores staff/planner to address this policy if they have concern. 
SVCA COMMENT – April 4, 2022 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8 of 8 
 
 
SVCA Comment (February 11, 2021) 
WSP Canada Inc. / Cobide Engineering Inc. / Gaman Consultants Inc. 
Response (March 22, 2022) 
SVCA Comment (April 4, 2022) 
 
size threshold where development would be permitted, nor does the policy indicate the 
ecological threshold that is acceptable for removal. SVCA staff asks for clarification 
of this policy from the TOSS planner as to whether 
our interpretation is correct. If the TOSS planner agrees with SVCA’s 
interpretation of the above policy, it is our recommendation the grading plan/site 
plan be amended to accommodate the wetland in its existing condition. 
Given the EIS has determined limited ecological value of Unit 4 of the 
wetland and an impact assessment has been completed, it is believed that 
Section 2.6.6.4 of the TOSS OP has been satisfied. 
 
18 
Similar to the above TOSS policy, SVCA’s policies for Planning Act review/advisory 
and Ontario Regulation 169/06, interference with wetlands is not supported and these 
policies encourage wetlands to be left in their natural state. SVCA’s policies also do 
not indicate an acceptable minimum size where development would be permitted, nor 
does the policy indicate the ecological threshold that is acceptable for removal. 
As noted in our attached July 19, 2021 correspondence, an SVCA permit is required 
prior to development and interference with wetlands and 
watercourses in SVCA’s regulated areas, which for this property include the hazard 
lands delineated on the attached SVCA map plus 15 metres adjacent, and wetlands 
plus 30 metres adjacent to the wetland boundary. The wetlands identified via EIS 
have not yet be incorporated into SVCA mapping. In accordance with O. Regulation 
169/06, wetlands do not have to be mapped to be a regulated feature. 
 
Given the above wetlands policy, SVCA staff could not issue a permit for the 
proposed development in the wetland as it constitutes an interference with the wetland 
and as such the application for interference with a wetland would need to go to 
SVCA’s Executive Committed for a decision. 
Alternatively, the proposed site plan could be amended where development and 
interference within the wetland will be avoided. 
 
Furthermore, a permit for the proposed SWM outlet and for development within 30 
metres of the wetlands identified via EIS could likely be issued, provided items 
noted in this letter are addressed to SVCA staff’s satisfaction, specifically regarding 
items 4, 8, 9, and 17. However, formal SVCA application for permission is required, 
and the recommended site 
plan/grading plan noted previously should include SVCA’s regulated lands. The 
purpose of this would be to clearly define where SVCA’s regulatory authority applies 
in relation to the proposed works. 
It is acknowledged that Ontario Regulation 169/06 only grants permission for 
development in or on a wetland, if, in its [SVCA’s] opinion, the control of 
flooding, erosion, dynamic beaches, pollution or the conservation of land will 
not be affected by the development.  O. Reg. 169/06, s. 3 (1). 
 
Please refer to comment 4 and 8. 
Based on further review, given previous SVCA staff approval was provided for this wetland 
removal, current staff have no further comment.  We are further satisfied the proposed will 
not impact the control of flooding and erosion based on Gamen Consultants responses from 
March 22, 2022.    
 
No further comment. 
 
 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-364-1255, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.saugeenconservation.ca 
 
 
 
 
 
Watershed Member Municipalities 
Municipality of Arran-Elderslie, Municipality of Brockton, Township of Chatsworth, Municipality of Grey Highlands, 
Town of Hanover, Township of Howick, Municipality of Morris-Turnberry, Municipality of South Bruce, 
Township of Huron-Kinloss, Municipality of Kincardine, Town of Minto, Township of Wellington North, 
Town of Saugeen Shores, Township of Southgate, Municipality of West Grey 
 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY (bpryde@bmts.com)  
  
February 18, 2022 
  
Miramichi Shores Land Development Ltd. 
c/o Brad Pryde 
10 Collard Way, Box 1725 
Port Elgin, ON  NOH 2C0 
 
  
Dear Mr. Pryde; 
  
RE:  
 
Proposed Plan of Subdivision: Miramichi Shores Phase 4 – S-2021-006 
 
 
SVCA Review of First Submission 
Roll No. 411044000615301 
Park Lot 55 and 56, Lake Range 
Geographic Township of Saugeen 
Town of Saugeen Shores_______________________________________________________ 
  
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff have reviewed the following reports and engineered 
drawings with regard to the above-noted subdivision as per our delegated responsibility from the Province to 
represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy 
Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under Ontario Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, 
Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and Watercourses Regulation).  SVCA staff has also 
provided comments as per our Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the County of Bruce representing 
natural hazards, natural heritage, and water resources; and the application has also been reviewed through 
our role as a public body under the Planning Act as per our CA Member approved Environmental Planning and 
Regulations Policies Manual, amended October 16, 2018.  
 
1. Environmental Impact Study, WSP, Project No. 201-06434-00, February 22, 2021, 
2. Environmental Impact Study, AWS, January 2006 (for background information), January 2006, 
3. WSP letter, dated November 25, 2021, 
4. Hydrogeological Report Perforated Storm Sewer Evaluation, Gaman Consultants Inc., January 19, 2021; 
5. Gaman Consultants Inc. letter, dated August 16, 2021, 
6. Stormwater Management Addendum Report, Miramichi Shores – Phase 4, Cobide Engineering, 
September 2021; and, 
7. Engineered Drawings, Cobide Engineering, Contract No 21-00104-01, September 30, 2021. 
Based on staff’s review of the above, we offer the following comments; 
 
Environmental Impact Study (EIS) 
 
1) Regarding Significant Wildlife Habitat (SWH) - Candidate Bat Maternity Colonies, Woodland Area-
Sensitive Bird Breeding Habitat, and Habitat for Special Concern and Rare Wildlife Species, WSP has  
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 2 of 7 
 
not concluded that the removal of 3.2 ha of woodland would not impact the populations of these 
species inhabiting the SWH.  Rather, they note removal of the forest cover/ interior habitat for the 
subdivision is justified given there will be remaining habitat north of the proposed subdivision.  While 
this point is factual, it is not concluded whether there will be a population decline from the loss of 
habitat.  SVCA staff recommends WSP clarify the potential for population decline based on habitat loss 
of forest cover and interior habitat, and to provide a statement as to whether SWH will be impacted 
based on the above. Designating offsite lands for protection associated with these features is not 
acceptable to SVCA staff.  Onsite protection measures could be proposed. 
 
2) Significant woodlands criteria are premised on its ecological function in supporting woodland interior, 
proximity to other woodlands/habitats, linkages, water protection, and woodland diversity.  One of 
the Town of Saugeen Shores criteria (as per the Town of Saugeen Shores Significant Woodlands Study, 
October 2012) for identifying the subject woodland as significant is its size and associated interior 
habitat (based on 100 metres from the woodland edge.)  Given the proposed development will reduce 
the size of interior woodland habitat by approximately 14% (according to SVCA staff calculations using 
100 metres from woodland edge), SVCA staff asks for clarification from WSP as to how the proposed 
subdivision will not impact this particular ecological function  (supporting woodland interior habitat), 
in addition to addressing item No. 1) above for supporting SWH. 
 
3) WSP has provided correspondence from the Ministry of Environment, Conservation and Parks (MECP) 
regarding Habitat of Endangered and Threatened Species, where MECP is satisfied the Endangered 
Species Act has been addressed. 
 
4) The EIS has concluded the proposed removal of the westerly portion of the Unit 4 wetland is 
considered acceptable because they state this portion of wetland does not feature significant 
ecological function.  Although, it may be acceptable from an ecological perspective to remove this 
feature, SVCA staff has concerns with regards to the hydrologic impact and policy restrictions that 
need to be addressed.  See below sections – ‘Hydrologic/Hydrogeologic Study’ and ‘Policy 
Conformance for Proposed Wetland Interference/Infilling’  for more information. 
 
Tree Retention Plan 
 
5) WSP has proposed 25% tree retention within the subdivision, whereas, in SVCA staff’s experience, 30% 
tree retention has been proposed and found acceptable for the majority of subdivisions within the 
Town of Saugeen Shores (TOSS) of late.  SVCA asks for clarification from WSP as to why 25% is 
proposed over 30% tree retention, and we ask for specific reference to Provincial guidance, if 
applicable. 
 
6) It is SVCA staff’s interpretation, section 3.20.4.5 a) iii) of the TOSS Official Plan (OP), in general, will 
support development within significant woodlands in the “Shoreline Residential” designation of SPA 4, 
provided an EIS is undertaken in accordance with section 6.27.4 of the OP.  Section 3.20.4.5 a) iii) of 
the OP states:  
 
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 3 of 7 
“A tree retention plan shall be completed, with the objectives of minimizing tree removal and 
disturbance, and protecting vegetation communities of conservation concern. To help off-set the loss of 
trees due to development, the tree retention plan shall identify areas where new trees will be provided, 
either on the lands subject to development or on other lands within or near SPA (4). The ratio of new 
trees planted to trees removed shall be at least 2:1. Only those new trees for the purposes of restoring 
and/or establishing natural features habitat, and not for landscaping purposes, shall be considered.” 
 
i. 
Regarding the required 2:1 ratio  for tree planting, SVCA staff do not see on the Tree Retention 
Plan (TRP), the number of quantity of trees proposed to be removed compared to the number 
of trees proposed to be replanted to conform to the TOSS 2:1 ration.  SVCA staff asks for this 
to be clearly defined on the proposed Tree Retention Plan.  Additionally, it is SVCA staff’s 
opinion the 2:1 ration should not include the area required for driveways. 
 
Furthermore, section 6.27.4.2 f) of the OP states: 
 
“An Environmental Impact Statement shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of this 
Section and shall include a description of….A Management Plan identifying how the adverse effects will 
be avoided or minimized over the construction period and the life of the undertaking and how 
environmental features and functions will be enhanced where appropriate and describing the net effect 
of the undertaking after implementation of the Management Plan. The Management Plan shall also 
establish mitigation measures including the limits of buffers and setbacks adjacent to watercourses, 
waterbodies, valleys, significant wetlands and vegetation to protect the natural feature and its 
attributes and/or function from the effects of development;” 
 
ii. 
In general, between the proposed TRP and the EIS, it is SVCA staff’s opinion, the above policy is 
generally met.  However, it is not clearly summarized on either the TRP or EIS how the 
environmental features and functions will be enhanced with a description of the net effect of 
the undertaking after implementation of the Management Plan.  SVCA staff asks for this to be 
addressed.  It is our opinion, the EIS should include a section or addendum that specifically 
addresses a proposed Management Plan in accordance with the above policy.   
 
iii. 
Furthermore, we recommend WSP or Cobide provide for recommendations as to who and 
when the proposed Management Plan will be implemented. 
 
7) It is SVCA staff’s experience, given the TOSS does not have a Tree Cutting By-law, that enforcement of  
a TRP is difficult.  Encroachment by landowners is inevitable and tree cutting and/or clearing for 
residences/accessory structures larger than is supported by the TRP will occur.  Once SVCA staff have 
provided our recommendations to the County/TOSS regarding TRP’s, our advisory role is complete 
when final approval is obtained; after which, enforcement of the TRP is the Town’s responsibility.  
SVCA staff asks for clarification from either the Town and/or County as to how the TRP can be 
managed for the long – term.  SVCA staff will forward a copy of this letter to the Town/County for their 
opinion on this matter. 
 
 
 
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 4 of 7 
 
 
Hydrologic/Hydrogeologic Study 
 
8) As per Gaman Consultants August 16, 2021 letter, they have indicated that infilling the westerly Unit 4 
wetland with native permeable soils should not have an adverse effect to post-development recharge 
rates.  SVCA are satisfied with Gaman’s conclusion with respect to post-development recharge.   
However, SVCA staff also requires an assessment of the potential flood storage capacity of the existing 
wetland (to be removed) for all storm events up to and including the Hurricane Hazel Flood Event 
Standard; and whether infilling the wetland will create increased flooding on adjacent lands.  
Additionally, a statement from Gaman is required on the potential increase to downstream flows of 
the watercourse resulting from diverting water normally stored in the wetland to concentrated flow 
downstream.   
 
The above information is required to demonstrate the proposed infilling will not exasperate existing 
flood hazards, create new flooding hazards, or create new erosion hazards on the downstream 
sections of the receiving watercourse and adjacent lands.  This information will be required to support 
your subdivision application and your SVCA application under Ontario Regulation 169/06.  However, 
the results may not necessarily guarantee approval by the SVCA based on item number 18 below. 
 
9) It is recommended in Gaman’s August 2021 letter to mitigate the potential loss of groundwater 
recharge post-development that roof leaders should be directed to the rear of the lots so water can 
infiltrate into the ground; and they further recommend the infiltration areas should be located beyond 
the zone of influence illustrated for the perforated storm sewer (PFF).  SVCA staff advises, the 
proposed lot grading plan, drawing 00104-C4 notes only roof leaders for lots 11 – 14 will be directed to 
the rear yard. However, in accordance with the above recommendation, the zone of influence in 
relation to the proposed location for roof leader drainage for all the lots should be demonstrated on 
the grading plan or separate site plan.   
 
10)  Page 17/18 of Gaman’s hydrologic/hydrogeologic report for the subdivisions proposed ‘Permit to Take 
Water”, January 31, 2021, advises that groundwater and surface water levels should be monitored 
during dewatering of the site; and that post construction monitoring should continue until 
groundwater levels rebound by 80%.   SVCA recommends that a plan as to who and when this will be 
undertaken and included in the subdivision agreement.  
 
Stormwater Management Report and Engineering Drawings 
 
In general, SVCA staff are satisfied with the above-noted Stormwater Management Report; however, we do 
have the following concerns that should be addressed; 
 
11) The erosion and sediment control notes in sections 6.1 and 6.2 should be included as ‘Notes’ on the 
Erosion and Sediment Control drawing. 
 
12) It should be concluded in the report that the site grading plan has been designed so that proposed 
residences will not be flooded for all storms up to and including the 100-year event. 
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 5 of 7 
 
 
13) The lot grading plan or a separate site plan for draft approval should indicate the limits of the cone of 
influence from the perforated sewer pipe in relation to the siting of proposed residences and their roof 
leaders in accordance with item number 9 above.  SVCA staff further recommend proposed residences 
do not have basements given the high groundwater table in the area and that this also be noted on the 
grading plan/site plan. 
 
14) SVCA staff notes the proposed stormwater outlet ditch does not have rip rap along the full length of 
the ditch, up to and including outlet at the waters edge.  SVCA asks for clarification from Cobide as to 
why this is the case and if they have determined via modelling that there would be no erosion of the 
outlet channel over the long term and during storms up to and including the 100-year event. 
 
15) It is proposed to install an Oil/Grit Separator (OGS) to achieve an enhanced level of treatment for 
stormwater in addition to lot conveyance measures.  However, SVCA staff cannot locate on the 
drawings as to where the OGS will be located.  We further recommend an OGS maintenance plan be 
included in the SWM report. 
 
Additional Comments: 
 
16) There are several recommendations in the EIS an hydrologic/hydrogeologic studies that must be 
implemented to ensure the proposed subdivision will not impact natural heritage features and 
surface/groundwater resources.  It is SVCA staff’s recommendations all the mitigation measures should 
be summarized in one document so that these measure can be easily referenced in the conditions for 
draft plan approval and final subdivision agreement. 
 
Policy Conformance for Proposed Wetland Interference/Infilling: 
 
17)  Section 2.6.6 of the TOSS Official Plan (OP) states the following: 
 
Wetlands are defined as lands that are seasonally or permanently flooded by shallow water as well as 
lands where the water table is close to the surface; in either case the presence of abundant water has 
caused the formation of hydric soils and has favoured the dominance of either hydrophytic or water 
tolerant plants. Specific areas shall be identified or confirmed as wetlands by the Town, in consultation 
with the appropriate authority (Section 2.6.1). 
 
Development or site alteration shall not be permitted within any wetlands (Section 2.6.6.3.) 
 
Where development or site alteration is proposed on lands adjacent to a wetland, an Environmental 
Impact Statement shall be required (Section 2.6.6.4.) 
 
It is proposed to remove a small section of the westerly unit 4 wetland to accommodate the proposed 
development; specifically, Lots 11 to 14.  However, the above TOSS policy does not indicate an 
acceptable minimum size threshold where development would be permitted, nor does the policy 
indicate the ecological threshold that is acceptable for removal.  SVCA staff asks for clarification of this 
policy from the TOSS planner as to whether our interpretation is correct.  If the TOSS planner agrees  
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 6 of 7 
 
with SVCA’s interpretation of the above policy, it is our recommendation the grading plan/site plan be 
amended to accommodate the wetland in its existing condition.   
 
18)  Similar to the above TOSS policy, SVCA’s policies for Planning Act review/advisory and Ontario 
Regulation 169/06, interference with wetlands is not supported and these policies encourage wetlands 
to be left in their natural state.  SVCA’s policies also do not indicate an acceptable minimum size where 
development would be permitted, nor does the policy indicate the ecological threshold that is 
acceptable for removal. 
As noted in our attached July 19, 2021 correspondence, an SVCA permit is required prior to 
development and interference with wetlands and watercourses in SVCA’s regulated areas, which for 
this property include the hazard lands delineated on the attached SVCA map plus 15 metres adjacent, 
and wetlands plus 30 metres adjacent to the wetland boundary.  The wetlands identified via EIS have 
not yet be incorporated into SVCA mapping.  In accordance with O. Regulation 169/06, wetlands do 
not have to be mapped to be a regulated feature.   
 
Given the above wetlands policy, SVCA staff could not issue a permit for the proposed development in 
the wetland as it constitutes an interference with the wetland and as such the application for 
interference with a wetland would need to go to SVCA’s Executive Committed for a decision.  
Alternatively, the proposed site plan could be amended where development and interference within 
the wetland will be avoided. 
 
Furthermore, a permit for the proposed SWM outlet and for development within 30 metres of the 
wetlands identified via EIS could likely be issued, provided items noted in this letter are addressed to 
SVCA staff’s satisfaction, specifically regarding items 4, 8, 9, and 17.  However, formal SVCA application 
for permission is required, and the recommended site plan/grading plan noted previously should 
include SVCA’s regulated lands.  The purpose of this would be to clearly define where SVCA’s 
regulatory authority applies in relation to the proposed works. 
Given the above comments, SVCA would not be able to advise the County/Town the proposed development 
meets the natural heritage and natural hazard policies of the Provincial Policy Statement, 2020, County of 
Bruce and the Town of Saugeen Shores OP. 
 
Thank you for the opportunity to comment.  We look forward to your response in order for SVCA staff to 
continue review of this file.  Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Brandi Walter 
Environmental Planning Coordinator 
Saugeen Conservation  
 
BW/ 
 
Encl: 
SVCA Map, SVCA Letter dated July 19, 2021 
 
 
Miramichi Phase 4 
February 17, 2022 
Page 7 of 7 
 
cc:  
Daniel Kingsbury, Planner, Cty. of Bruce (via email) 
 
Jay Pausner, Supervisor – Development Services, Town of Saugeen Shores (via email) 
 
Ron Davidson Land Use Planning (via email) 
Cheryl Grace, SVCA Member (via email) 
Dave Myette, SVCA Member (via email) 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
April 20, 2022
To Dan Kingsbury, Bruce County Planning - Peninsula Hub
Brad Pryde, Proponent
Ron Davidson, Planner
Re. Saugeen Ojibway Nation Initial Comments and Concerns for Miramichi
Shores Proposed Subdivision
The following are initial comments and points for clariﬁcation from the Saugeen
Ojibway Nation regarding the proposed Miramichi Shores Development by Brad
Pryde.
Archaeological Review - Stage 2 Re-assessment
For the following reasons, Saugeen Ojibway Nation is requesting a Stage 2
re-assessment of this property.
In April 2006, Amick Consultants Limited (London) conducted a then-Ministry of
Culture (now Ministry of Heritage, Sport Tourism and Culture) Stage 1
background research study and a Stage 2 shovel test-pit ﬁeld assessment
between April 17 and 21 of approximately seven hectares (17 acres) for Pryde
Schropp McComb Inc. (Port Elgin) of the then-Mary Rose (now Miramichi Shores)
Subdivision [part Lot 55 and 56 Lake Range, Saugeen Township (now Town of
Saugeen Shores), Bruce County]. Amick’s 2006 assessment complied with the
then-implemented Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Recreation’s for the most
part nonspeciﬁc 1993 Archaeological Assessment Technical Guidelines.
Without providing supporting evidence, Amick’s May 2006 Stage 1 evaluation of
archaeological
potential concluded the development area had low to moderate potential for the
presence of sites of Native origin. Later in the paragraph, Amick suggests instead
that the potential is high for the presence of archaeological resources of Native
origin.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
The Stage 2 test-pit survey which would have required approximately 2800
30-cm diameter shovel- excavated pits encountered no “archaeological
resources”. Without detail as to why no evidence of Indigenous or Euro-Canadian
cultural material was found during the Stage 2 assessment, Amick
recommended that no further (i.e., Stage 3) archaeological investigation was
required.
On March 12, 2008 the then-Ministry of Culture provided Amick with a letter
concurring with its
recommendation and accepting the report. The lands zoned PD within the
development area were then cleared by the Ministry of further archaeological
concerns.
Granting that Amick’s Stage 2 test-pit survey was conducted using Ministry 1993
technical guidelines, their 2006 survey strategy (test-pits excavated at ﬁve-metre
intervals) is the same as the updated 2011 Ministry standards and guidelines.
Their lack of methodological description (i.e., test-pit depths and soil proﬁles) and
negative outcome in light of the previous discoveries in comparable conditions
provide no conﬁdence in the Stage 2 assessment. The excavation of 2800 shovel
test-pits across seven hectares (17 acres) – if done properly, should have been
expected to have encountered even a minor occurrence of Indigenous cultural
material (eg., ceramic or toolstone fragments) from the past 6000 years. A Stage 2
re-assessment of the proposed Miramichi Shores Subdivision -- if properly
conducted implementing 2011 Ministry guidelines and with SON involvement,
will provide conﬁdence that no Indigenous cultural sites would be impacted. If
any were to be encountered, appropriate Stage 3 site-speciﬁc assessments would
need to be conducted.
Ecology/ Natural heritage
The SON ecological technical reviewer found the EIS to reasonably thorough and
well-presented. Potential vegetation impacts associated with the proposed
construction activities include the removal of some Signiﬁcant Woodland and
Unevaluated Wetland. The contiguous natural area, including the project Study
Area, also meets several criteria for Signiﬁcant Wildlife Habitat, namely:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
Candidate Bat Maternity Colony, Conﬁrmed Woodland Area-Sensitive Bird
Breeding Habitat, Conﬁrmed Special Concern and Rare Wildlife Species (Eastern
Wood-Pewee, Black Ash) and Conﬁrmed Specialized Habitat of Wildlife
Considered SWH (Seep and Springs). Based on the above, SON requests
responses or clariﬁcation regarding the following points relating to natural
heritage and ecology:
1.
The proposed development is situated entirely within a Signiﬁcant
Woodland. The clearing of trees would result in a reduction of overall
extent of the Signiﬁcant Woodland and, notably, would signiﬁcantly reduce
the extent of interior woodland, thereby impacting the ecological function
of the woodland to some degree. The EIS and the Planning Report both
conclude that the impacts “should be minimized” because the proposed
development is located directly adjacent to an existing residential area,
because of the relatively small tree removal area compared to the overall
size of the forested area, and because of the proposed tree retention plan
(25% of the existing tree cover). This position does not consider that the
contiguous woodland is one of the last remaining sizeable tracts of forest
between the MacGregor Point and Southampton and that intensive urban
development predominates throughout this area. The site is within the
“Huron Fringe” an area that is increasingly recognized as a signiﬁcant
corridor for migratory birds, with forested tracts like that of the Study Area
likely serving as stopover foraging areas for long-distance migrant land
birds following the coast. While the area of the proposed development
may be small relative to larger subdivisions, it is situated in the middle of
the remaining natural area and would signiﬁcantly reduce the extent of
and further fragment the forest interior of the Signiﬁcant Woodland. The
tree retention plan and other mitigation measures will mitigate impacts to
some degree, but the development itself contributes to the ongoing trend
of natural habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation in an already
heavily-impacted area. SON is interested in knowing at what point do
incremental incursions into Signiﬁcant Woodland become signiﬁcant
negative impacts?
2. The EIS states that unevaluated wetlands within and adjacent to the Site
have not been identiﬁed as provincially or locally signiﬁcant, but this does
not mean that the wetlands are not either provincially or locally signiﬁcant.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
SON generally does not accept that absence of a wetland evaluation
equates to lack of signiﬁcance. Please clarify whether the wetlands are
considered provincially or locally signiﬁcant.
3. Black Ash occurs on the wet to moist soils that predominate within the
Study Area and within the proposed development footprint. Black Ash has
been designated Threatened but has not yet (as of February 2022) been
afforded legal protection under the Species At Risk Act of Canada or
Ontario’s Endangered Species Act, 2007. Consultations regarding its
protection are ongoing both federally and provincially. The EIS states that
some Black Ash trees will likely be removed as part of the proposed
development activities. Black Ash has played a major role in the
Anishinaabe way of life since time immemorial and continues to have
many practical, medicinal, economic and artisanal uses. Even though the
current population of Black Ash in Ontario is still quite large, the
population is expected to decline by more than 70 percent over the next
100 years due to the effects of Emerald Ash Borer. All of SON Territory falls
within an area where the predicted mortality of Black Ash due to Emerald
Ash Borer is expected to exceed 90%. It is possible that some individual
Black Ash trees have resistance to Emerald Ash Borer. For this reason, SON
strongly encourages the protection of Black Ash trees that appear to be
healthy.
4. The timing of the EIS ﬁeldwork did not allow for appropriately-timed
amphibian breeding surveys. Only one late June survey was conducted.
Standard protocols require at least three surveys, starting in early spring.
Locally-occurring species of anurans (e.g., Spring Peeper, Western Chorus
Frog, Northern Leopard Frog) have typically stopped calling by late June.
This would be less of a concern if the proposed subdivision were not
situated partly within and adjacent to wetlands (i.e., high potential
amphibian breeding habitat). Given that it has already been established
that the wetlands within the development footprint and Study Area are
Black Ash habitat, appropriately-timed spring amphibian surveys should
be conducted to determine their degree of importance to breeding
amphibians. Please clarify if any amphibian surveys are planned.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
5. Four Species At Risk bat taxa have potential to occur at the site and
unidentiﬁed bats were observed during EIS ﬁeldwork. The EIS notes that
suitable bat “maternity roost trees are likely present throughout the forest
tract and foraging habitat is present over the forest and in forest gaps, as
well as the ﬁelds and shoreline of Lake Huron outside of the Site.” Why
were no formal bat surveys undertaken?
6. In addition to the potential snake species noted in the EIS, Milksnake
(Special Concern federally) has reasonable potential to occur, and Eastern
Ribbonsnake (Special Concern) is possible. Relatively uncommon species
like Smooth Greensnake and Northern Ring-necked Snake have been
documented in Bruce County in similar habitat near Lake Huron by SON,
and there is suitable habitat for these within the study area. Snakes are
particularly vulnerable to residential development within and near their
habitat due to a variety of factors including predation by household pets.
Why were no targeted snake surveys conducted?
7.
While the botanical surveys appear to have been quite comprehensive, it
should be noted that the published source used by the EIS to determine
plant status (i.e., Johnson 2016), while being an outstanding resource,
actually applies to the Saugeen (Bruce) Peninsula north of Highway 21. The
Study Area falls within southern Bruce County, which, due to signiﬁcant
differences in ecology and land use history, is treated as a separate
botanical unit from the Peninsula by various sources (including NHIC, the
Grey Bruce Plant Committee, and author Johnson himself).
8. One plant species identiﬁed in the EIS as being “common” in the upland
forests of the Study Area, Running Strawberry-bush (Euonymus obovatus),
is puzzling. This species is not known to occur in the wild in Bruce County
and it is not included in Johnson (2016) even though the EIS indicates that
it is. If Running Strawberry-bush actually does occur at the site, it would be
a highly signiﬁcant local occurrence, would represent a range expansion,
and consideration should be given to its protection.
9. The EIS notes the presence of Glossy Buckthorn (Frangula alnus), an alien
invasive species that has become a serious problem further south in
Ontario. However, Glossy Buckthorn is not (yet) very widespread or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
010129 Highway 6,
Georgian Bluffs, ON
N0H 2T0
(519) 534-5507
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
common in Bruce County. Photograph #23 in Appendix E of the EIS is
putatively of Glossy Buckthorn. However, the plant in the photograph
could also be Alder-leaved Buckthorn (Rhamnus alnifolia), a common
native shrub in wet to moist habitats in the northern half of Bruce County
that is surprisingly not listed as having been found during the EIS surveys.
Is it possible that some or all of the Glossy Buckthorn observations were
actually Alder-leaved Buckthorn?
10. SON is interested in reviewing any relevant agency correspondence since
the completion of the EIS, including agency reviews of the EIS.
11. Did SVCA comment on this project and can SON review those comments?
Thanks in advance,
Emily Martin
Manager of Resources and Infrastructure
 
WSP Canada Inc. 
Unit 2 
126 Don Hillock Drive 
Aurora, ON, Canada  L4G 0G9 
  
  
T: +1 905 750-3080 
F: +1 905 727-0463 
wsp.com 
2022-05-19 
 
Miramichi Shores Land Development Ltd. 
c/o Brad Pryde 
10 Collard Way, Box 1725 
Port Elgin, Ontario 
N0H 2C0 
 
 
Subject: Proposed Plan of Subdivision: Miramichi Shores Phase 4: 
 
Response to SON Comments (April 20, 2022) 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
WSP Canada Inc. (WSP) is pleased to provide the following in response to comments issued by 
the environment office of Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) on April 20, 2022, related to the draft 
plan approval for the Miramichi Shores Phase 4 Residential Development described as Part Lots 
55 and 56, Lake Range, Geographic Township of Saugeen, Town of Saugeen Shores. 
The appended Comment Table documents SON’s comments followed by WSP’s response. 
We expect the additional information contained within this submission satisfies the comments 
issued by SON. 
Yours truly, 
 
 
 
Jaclyn Rodo 
Ecologist 
   
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
WSP ref.: 211-04447-00 
 
 
 
WSP Canada Inc. 
      
Table 1: Response Table 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Comments (April 20, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. (May 19, 2022) 
Environmental Impact Study 
1 
The proposed development is situated entirely within a Signiﬁcant Woodland.   The 
clearing of trees would result in a reduction of overall extent of the Signiﬁcant 
Woodland and, notably, would signiﬁcantly reduce the extent of interior woodland, 
thereby impacting the ecological function of the woodland to some degree. The 
EIS and the Planning Report both conclude that the impacts “should be 
minimized” because the proposed development is located directly adjacent to an 
existing residential area, because of the relatively small tree removal area compared 
to the overall size of the forested area, and because of the proposed tree retention 
plan (25% of the existing tree cover). This position does not consider that the 
contiguous woodland is one of the last remaining sizeable tracts of forest between 
the MacGregor Point and Southampton and that intensive urban development 
predominates throughout this area. The site is within the “Huron Fringe” an area 
that is increasingly recognized as a signiﬁcant corridor for migratory birds, with 
forested tracts like that of the Study Area likely serving as stopover foraging  areas 
for long-distance migrant land birds following the coast.  While the area of the 
proposed development may be small relative to larger subdivisions, it is situated in 
the middle of the remaining natural area and would signiﬁcantly reduce the extent 
of   and further fragment the forest interior of the Signiﬁcant Woodland. The tree 
retention plan and other mitigation measures will mitigate impacts to some degree, 
but the development itself contributes to the ongoing trend of natural habitat loss, 
fragmentation and degradation in an already heavily-impacted area.  
SON is interested in knowing at what point do incremental incursions into 
Signiﬁcant Woodland become signiﬁcant negative impacts? 
The Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) issued comments related to 
the Environmental Impact Study on November 25, 2021 and follow-up comments 
were issued on February 19, 2022.  Among these comments, SVCA did present a 
question related to the reduction of interior woodland habitat. WSP provided a 
response in a letter dated March 22, 2022.  The comment-response chain is 
appended for reference. 
Development across Southern Ontario must balance the need for housing while 
also protecting natural resources. This development attempts to minimize the 
impact to the woodland by maintaining a small development along the edge of the 
greater woodland feature. 
The subdivision is proposed along the edge of the woodland, adjacent to existing 
residential development.  Interior woodland habitat will be reduced by 14%.  Based 
on review of existing literature, the remaining woodland area will continue to 
provide important interior habitat to various species.   
The woodland is associated with Environmental Protection within the municipal 
zoning bylaw and Official Plan and it is therefore mandated  that future 
development would  be subject to a zoning and Official Plan amendments and 
approval by the Municipality and various approval agencies including SON.  The 
balance of Planned Development zone located within Block 17 will be rezoned for 
Hazard Lands when the Town updates their Zoning Bylaw. The Developer is also 
required to place a Conservation Easement over Block 17 and registered on title 
which will prevent any future development. 
2 
The EIS states that unevaluated wetlands within and adjacent to the Site have not 
been identiﬁed as provincially or locally signiﬁcant, but this does not mean that 
the wetlands are not either provincially or locally signiﬁcant. 
 
SON generally does not accept that absence of a wetland evaluation equates to lack 
of signiﬁcance. Please clarify whether the wetlands are considered provincially or 
locally signiﬁcant. 
 
Existing mapping depicts neither a Provincially Significant Wetland or Locally 
Significant wetland within the greater property; however, it does depict an 
‘unevaluated wetland’ within and outside of the area of proposed development.  
The unevaluated wetland is also mapped within the existing subdivision south of 
the site.  Provincial GIS metadata for this wetland layer indicates the unevaluated 
wetland was mapped during the Ministry’s Southern Ontario Land Resource 
Information System (SOLRIS) project between 2000 and 2002, and it is presumed 
Page 3 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Comments (April 20, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. (May 19, 2022) 
a field investigation to confirm wetland limits was not completed by the ministry at 
that time. 
 
Prior to completing any field assessments by WSP, a Terms of Reference (ToR) 
was submitted to SVCA for review and comment.  The ToR indicated Ecological 
Land Classification (ELC) mapping would be completed as part of the field 
program, and the Ontario Wetland Evaluation System (OWES) protocol, 
specifically the 50-50 rule, would be used to delineate wetland habitats.  Figure 3 
of the EIS report depicts all ELC communities across the Site.   
 
A tree swamp was confirmed north and east of the development area and a narrow 
wetland ‘arm’ was determined to extend through the site before terminating at the 
rear of an existing residential lot.  In the EIS, the wetland ‘arm’ was described as 
providing little ecological significance, had no evidence of amphibian breeding 
habitat, and did not function as a wetland linkage. 
 
An evaluation to confirm the Significance of the wetland was not completed as part 
of this EIS.  In accordance with the provincially recognized wetland classification 
system, this wetland maintains the classification of ‘unevaluated’. 
 
3 
Black Ash occurs on the wet to moist soils that predominate within the Study Area 
and within the proposed development footprint. Black Ash has been designated 
Threatened but has not yet (as of February 2022) been afforded legal protection 
under the Species At Risk Act of Canada or Ontario’s Endangered Species Act, 
2007. Consultations regarding its protection are ongoing both federally and 
provincially. The EIS states that some Black Ash trees will likely be removed as 
part of the proposed development activities. Black Ash has played a major role in 
the Anishinaabe way of life since time immemorial and continues to have many 
practical, medicinal, economic and artisanal uses. Even though the current 
population of Black Ash in Ontario is still quite large, the population is expected to 
decline by more than 70 percent over the next 100 years due to the effects of 
Emerald Ash Borer. All of SON Territory falls within an area where the predicted 
mortality of Black Ash due to Emerald Ash Borer is expected to exceed 90%. It is 
possible that some individual Black Ash trees have resistance to Emerald Ash 
Borer. For this reason, SON strongly encourages the protection of Black Ash trees 
that appear to be healthy. 
 
Through discussion with the landowner, it is understood that Ash Borer has 
unfortunately killed off many ash trees across the property.   
 
The wet depression described in the EIS as containing Black Ash was assessed 
again on April 29, 2022.  The purpose of the assessment was to seek out Black Ash 
and document condition to adequately respond to this comment. Field ecologists 
confirmed that that several ash trees were dead at this location, with no living 
Black Ash observed. 
Page 4 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Comments (April 20, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. (May 19, 2022) 
4 
The timing of the EIS ﬁeldwork did not allow for appropriately-timed amphibian 
breeding surveys. Only one late June survey was conducted. Standard protocols 
require at least three surveys, starting in early spring. Locally-occurring species of 
anurans (e.g., Spring Peeper, Western Chorus Frog, Northern Leopard Frog) have 
typically stopped calling by late June. This would be less of a concern if the 
proposed subdivision were not situated partly within and adjacent to wetlands (i.e., 
high potential amphibian breeding habitat). Given that it has already been 
established that the wetlands within the development footprint and Study Area are 
Black Ash habitat, appropriately-timed spring amphibian surveys should be 
conducted to determine their degree of importance to breeding amphibians. Please 
clarify if any amphibian surveys are planned. 
 
WSP completed an amphibian survey on June 21, 2020, which confirmed no 
calling amphibians.  WSP also recently completed an amphibian survey on April 
29, 2022 in order to target species known to call earlier in the season, such as 
Spring Peeper and Western Chorus Frog.  The April 29, 2022 survey was also 
completed in accordance with the Marsh Monitoring program (refer to section 4.2.2 
of the EIS) and satisfies the first of three surveys.   
 
The June 21, 2020 survey was completed at a single location (Station 1).  The April 
29, 2022 survey was also completed at Station 1, and two additional locations 
(Station 2 and 3).  Station 2 occurred within the wetland arm and among the 
northern limit of the proposed development, while Station 3 occurred adjacent to 
the wet depression noted to contain Black Ash.  
Weather conditions were optimal during the April 29, 2022 survey (i.e. ~12°C and 
low wind). 
 
– 
Station 1:  No calling amphibians.  There was no standing water; however, 
the ground was saturated. 
 
– 
Station 2: No calling amphibians.  The area of the station was dry. 
 
– 
Station 3: No calling amphibians within the wet depression area.  One 
Spring Peeper was heard calling approximately 100 m southwest of the 
station, approximated to occur within an existing residential lot and 
outside of the site.  
 
Based on the June 2020 and April 2022 surveys and absence of calling amphibians 
within the site, or Significant Wildlife Habitat (e.g. amphibian breeding & Western 
Chorus Frog), development is not likely to impact significant amphibian habitat. 
 
The moisture regime of the wetland adjacent to the site will be maintained, such 
that any breeding activity that may occur in the future will not be impacted. 
 
5 
Four Species At Risk bat taxa have potential to occur at the site and unidentiﬁed 
bats were observed during EIS ﬁeldwork. The EIS notes that suitable bat 
“maternity roost trees are likely present throughout the forest tract and foraging 
habitat is present over the forest and in forest gaps, as well as the ﬁelds and 
shoreline of Lake Huron outside of the Site.” Why were no formal bat surveys 
undertaken? 
WSP consulted the Ministry of Environment, Conservation and Parks (MECP) 
related to likely Species at Risk (SAR) bat habitat throughout the site.  A record of 
correspondence is attached.  In accordance with the site-specific guidance tree 
removal within the site will not result in elimination of bat habitat.  This direction 
aligns with the ‘Bat Survey Standards Note 2021’ that MECP circulated to WSP 
last year, which stated: 
Page 5 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Comments (April 20, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. (May 19, 2022) 
 
 
Avoidance considerations: If a proposed activity will avoid impairing or 
eliminating the function of habitat for supporting bat life processes (e.g. remove, 
stub, etc. a small number of potential maternity or day roost trees in treed habitats) 
but the timing of tree removal will avoid the bat active season (April 1 – September 
30 in Southern Ontario / May 1 to August 31 in Northern Ontario), then there is no 
need to conduct species at risk bat surveys of treed habitats.  The damage and 
destruction assessment may vary geographically as the availability of other nearby 
maternity and day roost trees differs across the province of Ontario. 
6 
In addition to the potential snake species noted in the EIS, Milksnake (Special 
Concern federally) has reasonable potential to occur, and Eastern Ribbonsnake 
(Special Concern) is possible. Relatively uncommon species like Smooth 
Greensnake and Northern Ring-necked Snake have been documented in Bruce 
County in similar habitat near Lake Huron by SON, and there is suitable habitat for 
these within the study area. Snakes are particularly vulnerable to residential 
development within and near their habitat due to a variety of factors including 
predation by household pets. Why were no targeted snake surveys conducted? 
 
WSP contacted the MECP, Ministry of Northern Development, Mines, Natural 
Resources and Forestry (NDMNRF), and SVCA for background information, in 
addition to reviewing online public databases.  A master list of potential SAR was 
generated and associated habitat was screened for during site assessments.  In 
addition, incidental wildlife observations were noted. 
 
The scope of work was completed based on the approved ToR.  The ToR was 
developed and based on background information and agency consultation, which 
did reveal one possible SAR reptile – Snapping Turtle.  Typically, targeted snake 
surveys (e.g. coverboards, visual encounter methods) are only completed when 
background information reveals a provincially or federally Threatened or 
Endangered species and where associated candidate habitat is present, or under 
specific direction from the Township (via the local conservation authority), MECP 
or NDMNRF. 
 
In this case, available background information did not reveal any Threatened or 
Endangered reptiles, and agencies provided no specific direction to complete 
targeted snake surveys. 
 
WSP does note that Section 7.2.2 includes a mitigation measure to protect all 
wildlife that may be encountered in the work area.  As such, if a snake is 
encountered, the contractor must either let the snake leave the site on its own 
accord and if the snake doesn’t, notify the contract administrator, who would then 
consult a qualified individual. 
7 
While the botanical surveys appear to have been quite comprehensive, it should be 
noted that the published source used by the EIS to determine plant status (i.e., 
Johnson 2016), while being an outstanding resource, actually applies to the 
Saugeen (Bruce) Peninsula north of Highway 21. The Study Area falls within 
WSP acknowledges the error.  Thank you for bringing this to our attention.  Of all 
species documented on site, only one rare species (Black Ash) was identified by the 
NHIC. 
Page 6 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation Comments (April 20, 2022) 
WSP Canada Inc. (May 19, 2022) 
southern Bruce County, which, due to signiﬁcant differences in ecology and land 
use history, is treated as a separate botanical unit from the Peninsula by various 
sources (including NHIC, the Grey Bruce Plant Committee, and author Johnson 
himself). 
 
8 
One plant species identiﬁed in the EIS as being “common” in the upland forests of 
the Study Area, Running Strawberry-bush (Euonymus obovatus), is puzzling. This 
species is not known to occur in the wild in Bruce County and it is not included in 
Johnson (2016) even though the EIS indicates that  it is. If Running Strawberry-
bush actually does occur at the site, it would be a highly signiﬁcant local 
occurrence, would represent a range expansion, and consideration should be given 
to its protection. 
 
During the recent April 29, 2022 visit, WSP’s botanist confirmed the presence of 
Partridge Berry (Mitchella repens) within the Site (refer to appended photos).  It 
was indicated that this species was likely mis-identified as Running Strawberry-
bush given similar characteristics – trailing vine with simple, opposite leaves and 
green stems. 
 
9 
The EIS notes the presence of Glossy Buckthorn (Frangula alnus), an alien 
invasive species that has become a serious problem further south in Ontario. 
However, Glossy Buckthorn is not (yet) very widespread or common in Bruce 
County. Photograph #23 in Appendix E of the EIS is putatively of Glossy 
Buckthorn. However, the plant in the photograph could also be Alder-leaved 
Buckthorn (Rhamnus alnifolia), a common native shrub in wet to moist habitats in 
the northern half of Bruce County that is surprisingly not listed as having been 
found during the EIS surveys. Is it possible that some or all of the Glossy 
Buckthorn observations were actually Alder-leaved Buckthorn? 
 
A second WSP botanist reviewed photos of the Buckthorn taken at the time of the 
original field work (2020) and confirmed that the characteristics do align with 
Glossy Buckthorn identification given the entire margins versus finely toothed 
margins typical of Alder-leaved Buckthorn. Refer to appended photos.  There is 
also an iNaturalist record of Glossy Buckthorn nearby from 2018. 
10 
SON is interested in reviewing any relevant agency correspondence since the 
completion of the EIS, including agency reviews of the EIS. 
 
WSP has appended correspondence with both the SVCA and MECP.   
11 
Did SVCA comment on this project and can SON review those comments? 
Yes, SVCA has commented on this project.  WSP has associated correspondence. 
 
August 10 , 2022
To
Daniel Kingsbury
Re. Saugeen Ojibway Nation conditions for Mirimichi Shores proposed subdivision development.
This letter is addressed to the County of Bruce, regarding the duty to consult and accommodate SON
regarding a proposed approval of a plan of subdivision.
Brad Pryde  (the Proponent) has proposed to develop 14 lots over 16.252 ha, referred to as Miramichi
Shores (the Project) at Park Lots 55 and 56, Lake Range, Geographic Township of Saugeen.
Saugeen First Nation and Chippewas of  Nawash Unceded First Nation, collectively known as the
Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) are concerned about the ongoing impacts that infrastructure
developments, including Miramichi Shores, has on SON’s rights, interests and its Territory. SON Territory
(see enclosed map) includes the lands of the Saugeen (Bruce) Peninsula and approximately 1.5 million
acres of land south of the Peninsula, as well as the surrounding waters. It is a finite landscape shared by
many different forms of life that are inextricable from SON’s culture, ways of life, and health of the lands
and waters. SON has responsibilities of protection and stewardship to its Territory.   Over the last century,
residential, commercial, tourism, agricultural and infrastructure development has proceeded in SON
Territory without SON’s input, adequate consultation or SON’s free, prior and informed consent.
This cannot continue, and indeed, the law requires that SON be meaningfully consulted and
accommodated before any further development is approved and can occur within or impacting SON
Territory. SON’s Aboriginal and treaty rights, exercised by its members throughout SON’s Territory, are
protected by section 35 of the Canadian constitution (Canada’s highest law). That protection triggers the
need for consultation and accommodation with SON whenever a development or activity is considered
that could potentially harm SON’s rights.
In most parts of SON Territory, well over 50% of natural lands have been significantly altered and the
pressures of development are ongoing, and increasing. Impacts occur at the scale of each individual
project and on a cumulative scale. The transformation of forests, wetlands, grasslands and other natural
habitats to developed lands (e.g., subdivisions, roads, altered shorelines and other built environments) has
led to significant impacts on healthy ecological functions, quality and integrity (e.g., loss of habitat
connectivity, introduction of invasive species, degraded fish and wildlife habitat), and impacts to surface
water and groundwater quality and quantity (which can occur as a result of stormwater management and
the infrastructure required for drinking water and sewage management). The relationship of these land
and water related impacts on their ecological and cultural roles pose significant concerns for SON. SON’s
uses of and relationships to its lands and waters since time immemorial are impacted, as are, by extension,
SON’s rights, interests and responsibilities.
Through its Environment Office, SON has participated in consultation with Brad Pryde on Miramichi
Shores.
As an outcome of that consultation, SON has identified the following conditions that must be met and/or
implemented prior to any proposed activity or construction proceeding. SON expects the following
accommodations to be incorporated into the conditions for the approval of a plan of subdivision (as per
section 51 subsection 25 of the Ontario Planning Act) or to be incorporated into an agreement between the
municipality and the proponent imposed as a condition to the approval of a plan of subdivision (as per
section 51 subsection 26 of the Ontario Planning Act), depending on which is more appropriate for each.
SON requires the opportunity to review and verify that this is complete prior to withdrawing its objection
to the Project.
Accommodation expectations of SON regarding the Project:
1. A water quality assessment related to the potential nitrate and phosphorus capture
from the PPS should be carried out and provided to the SON Environment Office.
2. Notify SON should human remains or archaeological materials be discovered on
site.
3. SVCA recommends that: “all the mitigation measures should be summarized in one
document so that these measures can be easily referenced in the conditions for draft
plan approval and final subdivision agreement.” This document should also be
provided to the SON Environment Office
Regardless of the above conditions being met, SON continues to have concerns about the cumulative
impacts of building developments in SON Territory and the contribution of the above project to these
cumulative impacts. There needs to be a process in place between the County, Municipalities, and SON to
address cumulative impacts in SON Territory at the earliest stages of planning. We look forward to this
conversation.
Please note, SON is especially concerned about development close to current shorelines. SON does not
support the development of any currently undeveloped shorelines in SON Territory for residential or other
uses.
From here, SON expects Bruce County to follow up regarding appropriate mechanisms to implement each
of the above accommodations to ensure long term enforceability.
Miigwetch,
Riel Warrilow
Resources and Infrastructure Associate,
Environment Office of the Saugeen Ojibway Nation
Cc’ Brad Pryde
 
Bluewater District School Board 
 
  
351 1st Avenue North – PO Box 190 
 
Chesley ON  N0G 1L0 
 
Telephone:  (519) 363-2014    Fax:  (519) 370-2909 
www.bwdsb.on.ca 
 
Learning Today, Leading Tomorrow 
August 11, 2022 
 
Coreena Smith, Senior Planner 
County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
11243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin, ON N0H 2C6 
bcplpe@brucecounty.on.ca 
 
 
RE:  
S-2021-002 Miramichi Shores 
 
Attention: Coreena Smith 
 
Further to our communications regarding the comments submitted by Bluewater District School Board 
(BWDSB) for the Miramichi Phase 4 subdivision in Saugeen Shores, BWDSB acknowledges that Council 
has concerns with the language used in the standard conditions, which covers the following:  
 
i. 
Student accommodation for the new subdivision in terms of potential utilization of portables or 
amending school attendance areas; 
ii. 
Student transportation services in relation to the bus and walk zones for the new subdivision; 
iii. 
Advising that school bus pick-up locations have not been determined and will be located based 
on student safety; and, 
iv. 
The inclusion of sidewalks to ensure students can travel to and from school safely. 
 
The Town of Saugeen Shores may choose not to include BWDSB’s standard conditions for this 
development proposal and future proposals. The purpose of this letter is to provide context for Council 
regarding the inclusion of these conditions. 
 
With respect to the first condition, BWDSB is required under the Education Act to accommodate students 
across Grey and Bruce counties. Accommodation is enabled through school buildings and any additions 
or alterations to a building, which may include portables. This standard condition has been provided as 
a courtesy to new residents to notify them that increased accommodation pressures in the Saugeen 
Shores attendance areas (which may not align with community boundaries), may require that students 
are assigned to schools outside of the municipal communities. Under the Provincial Policy Statement 
(PPS), planning authorities are to ensure that comments, submissions, or advice that affect a planning 
matter are provided by a local board (including a school board). The requested conditions are worded to 
ensure prospective home purchasers understand the limitations facing BWDSB, and to provide an 
opportunity for them to reach out to the board to understand where their children may attend school. The 
intention of this condition is not to put the responsibility on the municipality, but to redirect accountability 
to the board. The following alternative wording could be employed to clarify this:  
 
“Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective home purchasers 
that accommodation within a public school operated by Bluewater District School Board may 
include temporary facilities, including but not limited to, portable classroom or directing students 
to an alternative attendance boundary.” 
 
Conditions two and three speak to walkability and busing needs, which are paramount to student safety. 
The requested conditions ensure that future parents understand that busing services and walk zones are 
determined at the time of occupancy. These conditions educate parents on their due diligence to confirm 
how their children will travel to school with the Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey Bruce. 
Parents often assume that there is busing provided when this may not be the case. 
 
Lastly, regarding condition four, it was unclear on the revised draft plan for the subdivision if sidewalks 
were proposed. This condition is intended to ensure that sidewalks would be included to facilitate 
walkability to schools. If sidewalks are included within the subdivision, the board has no objection to this 
condition being removed.  
 
Saugeen Shores, particularly Port Elgin, is facing accommodation pressures in its elementary and 
secondary schools. BWDSB is monitoring development pressures of roughly over 1,000 residential units 
in this area, which would translate to an increase in student enrolment. Forecasted growth projections 
highlight the need to establish long-term planning; part of which is ensuring the timely notification of future 
residents of the potential need to accommodate students outside of their attendance boundary, if needed.  
 
BWDSB has limited tools at its disposal to address increased accommodation pressures in growing 
communities. If student growth within a current school attendance boundary exceeds the physical 
capacity of the school building and portables on site, attendance boundary reviews may be undertaken 
to address growth pressures between schools.  
 
Once a ‘family of schools’ reaches a utilization rate of over 100%, the board would be in a position to 
submit a business case to the Ministry of Education for additions to current schools or new school builds.  
The Ministry of Education takes various factors into consideration when considering approval for capital 
funding for the above noted additions or new schools. As the communities in Bruce County continue to 
grow, it is important that the board and the municipality work together in securing school sites through 
draft plans of subdivisions, and by supporting the intensification needs on current school sites.  
 
The BWDSB appreciates the concern from the municipality and have provided alternative wording to 
clarify the intent of the conditions, trusting that these amendments would support the original professional 
planning recommendations included within the revised draft plan of subdivision. 
 
As growth continues within Bruce County, it is imperative that flexibility, support, and collaboration are 
incorporated into the growth strategies, not only for housing, but also student accommodation.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
Rob Cummings, CPA, CMA 
Superintendent of Business Services and Treasurer 
 
c.c.: 
Dennis Dick, Manager of Plant Services 
 
Shelley Crummer, Business Analyst 
 
 
 
 
 
