County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
brucecounty.on.ca 
226-909-5515 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval  
Plan of Subdivision 
 
The Council of the Corporation of the County of Bruce hereby issues Draft Approval to 
Following Application:   
File Number  
 
S-2021-006  
For 
 
 
 
Miramichi Shores Land Development Ltd. 
In Respect Of  
Part Lots 55 and 56, Lake Range 
 
Geographic Township of Saugeen 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
 
Date of Draft Approval 
As per the County Decision Sheet 
 
The following conditions have been established by the County of Bruce and must be met prior 
to the granting of Final Approval: 
 
Identification 
1) That this approval applies to Plan of Subdivision File S-2021-006 for the Miramichi Shores 
Land Development Ltd. on lands legally known as Part Lots 55 and 56, Lake Range, 
Geographic Township of Saugeen, Town of Saugeen Shores, prepared by Cobide 
Engineering Inc, dated December 2020 (Drawing Number 00104-DP) and signed by the 
owner on January 4, 2021.   
 
Lot Layout and Density 
2) That this approval is in accordance with the 'Land Use Schedule’ on the Plan of 
Subdivision, prepared by Cobide Engineering Inc dated December 2020 (Drawing Number 
00104-DP) and signed by the owner on January 4, 2021.  
 
Servicing, Stormwater Management, Public Roads, Walkways, Streetlighting & Future 
Development. 
 
3) Any dead ends and open sides of road allowances created by this Draft Plan shall be 
terminated in 0.3 metre reserves. 
 
4)  Walkways and Service Corridors shall be conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, free 
and clear of encumbrances. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 2 of 10 
 
 
5)  
a) Sidewalks shall be installed on one side of the local streets in a location and standard 
approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores  
b) Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of collector roads in a location and standard 
approved by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
c) Sidewalks shall be installed external to the Plan of Subdivision, where required by the 
Town. 
 
6) Before any lots, blocks, roads, walkways, trails, service corridors, 0.3 metre reserves, 
identified in this Plan are conveyed to the Town of Saugeen Shores, they shall be free and 
clear of encumbrances. 
 
7) All street and public lighting fixtures shall be dark-sky compliant. 
 
8) Site Visibility Triangles at the intersections of all roads shall be conveyed to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores, as required by the Town and shall be provided clear and free of 
encumbrance. 
 
9) Temporary turning circles or other approved turnarounds, shall be installed, if required by 
the approved phasing/staging of the subdivision, to the Town’s satisfaction.  Provisions for 
the design, construction, and decommissioning of the turnarounds shall be incorporated in 
the subdivision agreement. 
 
10)  The Owner shall transfer Blocks 15 and 16 (walkways) to the Town 
 
11)   The Owner acknowledges that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of   
Saugeen Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity generally.  Notwithstanding the 
previous statement, commitment to reserve water and sanitary servicing capacity shall be 
granted where existing agreements identify such commitment but only to the extent such 
detail provides in existing agreements 
 
12)   Watermains shall be looped as required by the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
13) The Owner shall prepare a Stormwater Management Plan by a technically qualified 
consultant and approved by the Town 
 
14)  The Owner shall prepare, to the Town’s satisfaction, a Lot Grading Plan by a technically 
qualified consultant; The Plan shall indicate proposed lot grades and shall ensure minimal 
removal of trees. The Agreement may impose lot grading securities on each lot to provide 
assurances that the lots are graded in accordance with the approved drawings. 
 
15) The Owner shall prepare an erosion control plan to the Town’s satisfaction. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 3 of 10 
 
 
16) All internal and external services and upgrades to existing services required for the 
development of this Plan shall be designed by a qualified professional to the Town of 
Saugeen Shores satisfaction and in accordance with the Town’s Development Manual and 
constructed/installed at the owner's expense. 
 
Parkland / Open Space 
17) That the Owner conveys land in the amount required pursuant to the Official Plan for The 
Town of Saugeen Shores for residential purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores for park 
purposes Alternatively, the Town of Saugeen Shores may accept cash-in-lieu for the said 
conveyance and under provisions of The Official Plan for The Town of Saugeen Shores is 
hereby authorized to do so.  The Town may also accept a combination of land and cash to 
satisfy this requirement. 
 
18)  That the Owner agrees to transfer an easement to the Town, over Block 17, for the long 
term trail use. 
 
Easements 
 
19) That the Owner agrees to grant such easements as may be required for utility or drainage 
purposes to the Town of Saugeen Shores or other appropriate authority. 
 
Subdivision Agreement 
 
20) That the Owner enter into an agreement with the Town of Saugeen Shores to satisfy all 
the requirements of the Town of Saugeen Shores, and including matters required in these 
conditions of approval and may also include the following to the satisfaction of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores: 
i. the contribution to or the making of any required off-site 
improvements. 
 
21) That the Subdivision Agreement be registered by the Town of Saugeen Shores against the 
land to which it applies and a copy of the registered agreement be forwarded to the County 
of Bruce at the time of Final Approval of the Plan. 
 
Staging and Lapsing 
 
22) That the Owner agrees to stage any development of the Plan in a manner satisfactory to 
the Town of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
 
23) The Owner shall prepare a Phasing Plan, if deemed necessary by the Town, outlining the 
timing of the required studies, and the design and timing of construction of all amenities 
and services (road construction, services, sidewalks, etc.). 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 4 of 10 
 
 
 
24) That the Draft Approval for Plan of Subdivision S-2021-060 for Miramichi Shores Land 
Development Ltd in the Town of Saugeen Shores shall lapse as follows: 
 
a. For the first phase, three (3) years after the date of Draft Approval unless it has 
been extended by the County of Bruce with the concurrence of the Town of 
Saugeen Shores; and 
 
b. For any subsequent phases, five (5) years after the date of Final Approval of the 
preceding phase. 
 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
 
25) That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan approved under the 
Planning Act. 
 
26) That the County of Bruce be advised by the Town of Saugeen Shores that the Plan of 
Subdivision conforms to the Zoning By-law approved under the Planning Act.  Holding 
provisions, pursuant to Section 36 of The Planning Act may be used in conjunction with 
any zone category to be applied to the subject lands in order to ensure that development 
does not occur until such time as the Holding “H” symbol is removed in accordance with 
the provisions of The Planning Act.  The Zoning By-law shall specify the terms under which 
Council may consider the removal of the Holding “H” symbol. 
 
Notices & Warning Clauses 
 
27) That the Subdivision Agreement between the Owner and the Town of Saugeen Shores 
include the requirement for the following Notice / Warning Clauses to be included in all 
offers of purchase and sale for residential lots on the Plan: 
 
“Stormwater Management Facilities 
Purchasers are advised that facilities for the management of stormwater runoff on the 
lot are subject to an approved Stormwater Management Plan. No Owner of any lot shall 
alter, interfere with or remove any of the Stormwater Management Facilities located 
within the lot except in accordance with the approved Stormwater Management Plan. 
Changes or alterations to the approved Stormwater Management Plan shall require the 
prior approval of the Town of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority.” 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 5 of 10 
 
 
 “Lot Grading 
Purchasers are advised that the grading of the lot is subject to an approved Lot Grading 
Plan. No Owner of any lot shall alter the grade or place or remove any fill material within 
any yard except in accordance with the approved Lot Grading Plan. Changes or 
alterations to the approved Lot Grading Plan shall require the prior approval of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores and Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.” 
 
Tree Retention 
28) An integrated lot drainage and tree retention and protection plan shall be prepared and 
submitted for approval to the Town of Saugeen Shores. The integrated lot drainage and 
tree retention and protection plan is to be implemented throughout development of the 
Plan. 
 
29) The tree retention plan shall consider requirements for sight triangles at intersections and 
private driveways, construction of services on road allowances and private lots, driveway 
access, lot grading and building construction. 
 
30)  The tree retention plan shall provide a methodology to be used to remove trees so as to 
avoid damage to the remaining trees. Specifications shall be provided to ensure minimal 
damage to tree roots by grading or excavation for footings and services. 
 
31) An Edge Management and Planting Plan shall be prepared to the satisfaction of the Town 
of Saugeen Shores, to preserve the health of the woodlands and to restore vegetation 
removed as a result of the development of the Plan. 
 
32) The Owner shall prepare, to the Town’s satisfaction, a Tree Retention Plan prepared by a 
qualified person. The Plan shall outline how trees are to be retained and/or replaced during 
construction of the subdivision and building of the dwellings. The Agreement may impose 
securities on each lot to ensure the requirements of the tree retention plan are 
implemented. 
 
33) The Tree Retention Plan shall incorporate recommendations from the Environmental 
Impact Study submitted with the Draft Plan Application. 
 
Attainable Housing 
 
34) The Owner shall agree to construct at least five (5) secondary dwelling units within the 
subdivision. This term shall be incorporated into the subdivision agreement. Alternatively, 
the Owner agrees to provide a cash contribution to the Town’s Attainable Housing 
Reserve. Such amount shall be outlined in the subdivision agreement.  
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 6 of 10 
 
 
 
 
Other 
 
35) All disturbed lots or blocks to be left vacant for longer than thirty (30) days shall be graded, 
seeded and maintained to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores 
 
36) The Owner agrees to construct a fence as required, to the Town’s satisfaction, which 
prohibits pedestrian access to the lands abutting the eastern limit of this Plan 
 
Utilities & Canada Post 
 
37)  An overall utility distribution plan shall be prepared and submitted for approval to the 
satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
38) The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements with the appropriate electric 
provider for the provision of permanent or temporary electrical services to this Plan.   
 
39) The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of permanent or 
temporary telecommunications services and cable services to this Plan. 
 
40) The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of permanent or 
temporary gas services to this Plan. 
 
41) The Owner agrees to make satisfactory arrangements for the installation of postal boxes, if 
deemed necessary by Canada Post.  The location and design of postal boxes shall be 
jointly approved by Canada Post and the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
 
Bluewater District School Board 
 
42) That the Owner shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement with wording acceptable to 
Bluewater District School Board to: 
 
a) Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers 
that accommodation within a public school operated by Bluewater District School Board 
may include temporary facilities, including but not limited to, portable classrooms or 
directing students to an alternative attendance boundary.  
 
b) Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers 
that student busing is at the discretion of the Student Transportation Service 
Consortium of Grey-Bruce.  
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 7 of 10 
 
 
c) Include in all Offers of Purchase and Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers 
that if school buses are required within the Subdivision in accordance with Board 
Transportation policies, as may be amended from time to time, school bus pick up 
points will generally be located on the through street at a location as determined by the 
Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce.  
 
d) Provide sidewalks and pedestrian linkages throughout the subdivision, to promote 
active transportation and safe walking routes to the satisfaction of the Town of Saugeen 
Shores in consultation with the Bluewater District School Board.  
 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
 
43) That SVCA is satisfied with the final Environmental Impact Study, Hydrogeological Report, 
Tree Retention Plan, and SWM Report and Engineering Drawings.  
 
44) That SVCA is satisfied the final site plan / grading plan demonstrates development will 
occur in accordance with the recommendations for mitigation measures outlined in WSP’s 
Environmental Impact Study (February 22, 2021). 
 
45) That the Subdivision Agreement include conditions implementing mitigation measures 
outlined in the final Environmental Impact Study, Site plan/Grading plan, and Tree 
Retention Plan to the satisfaction of SVCA. 
 
Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
46) That the Owner enter into an agreement with Saugeen Ojibway Nation to satisfy the post-
registration requirements of Saugeen Ojibway Nation, including matters related to the 
assessment of water quality, notification should human remains or archaeological 
materials and a summary of mitigation measures related to natural heritage impacts.  
 
County of Bruce 
47) That the County of Bruce Approval Authority is satisfied the proposed servicing conforms 
to the servicing policies of the County of Bruce Official Plan.   
 
Digital Plan Submission 
 
48) That prior to Final Approval the Owner shall submit to the Town of Saugeen Shores and 
County of Bruce a digital file of the Plan to be registered in a format approved by the Town 
of Saugeen Shores and County of Bruce. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 8 of 10 
 
 
Clearance Conditions 
49) That prior to Final Approval being given by the County of Bruce, the County shall receive a 
clearance letter from the following agencies indicating how conditions applicable to their 
authority have been completed to their satisfaction: 
 
a. Town of Saugeen Shores (conditions 3 to 37, 48) 
b. Electricity Service Provider (condition 38); 
c. Telecommunications and Cable Service Provider (condition 39) 
d. Gas Utility Provider (condition 40); 
e. Canada Post (condition 41); 
f. Bluewater District School Board (condition 42) 
g. Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (conditions 43 to 45). 
h. Saugeen Ojibway Nation (condition 46) 
i. County of Bruce (condition 48) 
 
 
If agency conditions are incorporated into the subdivision agreement, a copy of the draft 
agreement should be sent to them. This will expedite clearance of the Final Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 9 of 10 
 
 
General Notes to Draft Approval 
1. It is the Owner’s responsibility to fulfill the Conditions of Draft Approval and to ensure 
that the required clearance letters are forwarded by the appropriate agencies to the 
County of Bruce Planning and Development Department quoting the appropriate 
subdivision file number. 
 
2. Final Approval – An ‘Application for Final Approval’ together with all supporting 
documentation, plans and the required filing fee must be submitted to the County of 
Bruce. If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and the County of Bruce has 
received the required agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be 
endorsed on the plan and it will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. 
 
The number of mylar(s) and white paper prints as required for registration under the 
Registry Act must be submitted to the County of Bruce along with the ‘Application for 
Final Approval’. 
 
We strongly recommend that a ‘draft’ of the Final Plan be submitted to the County and 
the Registry Office for pre-clearance prior to the submission of any Application. 
 
3. Inauguration, or extension of a water works is subject to the approval of the Ministry of 
the Environment under Section 52 and Section 53 of the Ontario Water Resources Act, 
R.S.O. 1990. 
 
4. Clearance letters are required from the agencies listed under Item 34. Clearance 
Conditions of this approval. 
 
5. Note that you will not be advised in writing of the lapsing date of the Draft Plan 
Approval. It is your responsibility to provide the approval body with the required 
information and fees to extend this draft approval. Should the information and fees not 
be received prior to the lapsing date, the Draft Plan Approval will lapse. There is no 
authority to revise the approval after the lapsing date. A new subdivision application 
under Section 51 of the Planning Act will be required. Please note that an updated 
review of the plan and revision to the Conditions of Approval may be necessary if an 
extension is to be granted. 
 
6. Final Plans – When the survey has been completed and final plan prepared, to satisfy 
the requirements of the Registry Act, they should be forwarded to the County of Bruce. 
If the plans comply with the terms of approval, and we have received the required 
agency clearances, the County’s stamp of approval will be endorsed on the plan and it 
will be forwarded to the Registry Office for registration. You are advised to consult the 
Land Registrar for requirements for registration prior to applying to the County of Bruce 
for Final Approval. 
 
 
 
 
Conditions of Draft Approval S-2021-006 Miramichi Shores, Page 10 of 10 
 
 
7. The Owner is advised that Draft Approval is not a commitment by the Town of Saugeen 
Shores to water or sanitary servicing capacity.  
 
