Subdivision File - #S-2021-006
Susan Banni 
Mon 6/21/2021 5:02 PM
To: Port Elgin Planning <BCPLPE@brucecounty.on.ca>
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Good afternoon,
I saw a sign posted by the Pegasus Trails and was told that there might be a new subdivision underway 
consisting of 14 detached dwellings.
Just looking for more information as to when these lots might be coming available and sizes of lots. 
Thank you.
Kind regards,
Susan Banni
Public Comments
Miramichi Phase 4 application
Mon 7/19/2021 9:19 AM
To: Port Elgin Planning <BCPLPE@brucecounty.on.ca>
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Good day.
We are writing today to express our objection to the application for 14 detached homes to be built in 
the Miramichi Shores Subdivision.
The reasons are as follows:
1. We were never given notice of this potential phase by Bruce County or the Town of Saugeen
Shores, although it would impact us directly. We learned about this and the public meeting
third hand.
2. Traffic:  Currently, only one roadway services 52 homes, with minimum of 2 vehicles in each
home. This is one entrance and one exit for transport trucks, construction vehicles,
emergency vehicles, delivery and lawncare vehicles, plus all the privately owned vehicles. The
roadway is already in a state of disrepair due to all the heavy traffic.  If another 14 homes
are constructed, another roadway should be considered, although that would impact even
more woodlands.  Miramichi Bay Road is also popular for running and biking fundraisers, being
closed to traffic, or one-way traffic during certain times of the year, inconveniencing many or
jeopardizing the safety of participants.  Extra traffic would certainly have an impact.
3. What happens to the remainder of this parcel of land? Is there potential for it to be further
developed in the future, thereby depleting the trail system for physical activities, further
degradation of wildlife habitat and significant woodlands and more traffic? 
4. Water table: Will this development deplete our water table now, as many of us are on
sandpoints to water our outdoor plants and lawns? We would request a guarantee for future
water levels to remain the same, dependant on Lake Huron's water levels. 
5. There is significant wildlife habitat and woodlands in this area to be considered. Maintenance
of 25% of tree cover has not been controlled in the past; some local lots have been completed
denuded of trees. How will this be enforced?
6. Trails:  Saugeen Shores prides itself on the numerous trails in the area, and these trails are
widely used for skiing and snowshoeing in the winter, biking and hiking in the summer, dog
walking and walking for physical activity year round. Removing or interrupting some of these
trails will impact the enjoyment felt by many residents.
 A neighbourhood petition has been passed around voicing some of these impacts. We will be
listening to the public meeting Monday, July 19 at 6:30.
Sincerely, 
Debbie and Rob Campbell, 15 Collard Way, Port Elgin
From: Jim and Barbara McKnight
Sent: Monday, June 21, 2021 5:41 PM 
To: info <info@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Saugeen Shores S-2021-006
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
This past week, we received no ﬁca on of an applica on to complete the development of a 14-lot subdivision 
which abuts our property at 17 Carter Drive, Port Elgin. We reside in lot 12 which backs on to the new lot #5 of 
this applica on.
I have two areas of concern, the ground water level aŌer the development and the reten on of trees.
Water Lever:
It appears they will be lowering the water table to install storm sewers and receptors. What affect will this
have on the level of water in our sand point? We installed it in 2002 and use it extensively to water our
lawns and gardens. If it is lowered to the point that it no longer works, it will either force us to switch to
municipal water (with all its restrictions and costs) or we will be required to install a new deeper system
which again will be very costly. 
Tree Retention:
One of the appendixes is a tree retention Plan for the new development. If I am reading this correctly, there
must be a buffer of trees of a minimum of 13 metres at the back of lot #5 and it goes on further to describe
it as “no site alterations”. Does this actually mean any potential new owners must leave all trees in this 13
metre section when they decide to build? I am somewhat surprised (but very pleased) to see this as there
is no evidence this was a requirement when they built on Carter Drive in the past couple of years as there
is at least two new homes where every tree was cut down on the lot. fiti ti  
We would appreciate clariﬁca on on the above points.
Also, we would like to be kept informed of mee ngs, correspondence, etc. connected to this development. 
Jim & Barbara McKnight
17 Carter Dr 
Daniel Ingram 
23 Carter Drive 
Port Elgin, Ontario, N0H 2C6 
July 13, 2021 
County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
Attention: Daniel Kingsbury 
1243 MacKenzie Road 
Port Elgin, Ontario, N0H 2C6 
Re: Subdivision File #S-2021-006 
Dear Bruce County and Mr. Kingsbury, 
I am writing this letter to express my concern with the proposal to develop Miramichi Phase 4 and 
request you vote to NOT APPROVE this development application.  My main concerns can be 
summarized in three categories: environment, overall economic benefit, and community wellbeing and 
safety.  
The Environment 
Environmentally, there are four endangered species and 16 species at risk that are currently present in 
the identified area. The mitigation plan focused on keeping as many trees as possible is an unacceptable 
mitigation strategy. Without a reasonable plan in place to protect this environment, this development 
will cause irreparable damage to our native species. The potential long-term implications of this could 
be catastrophic to the area, including extinction and damage to our natural habitats.  
In addition, the proposed development space includes 10 acres of old growth, seasonal flooding 
wetlands, sensitive water streams, fish habitat, migration paths and protected flora, as noted in the 
environmental report. Bruce County prides itself on its natural beauty and its focus on preserving our 
natural environments to allow our residents and visitors to “Explore the Bruce.” This should be a key 
consideration when evaluating the application for proposed development in this area.  
The current Lakeside Woods development land is a perfect example of what happens when you build 
in an environmentally sensitive area. With a high water-table, it creates difficult building conditions. 
There are challenges with adding safe areas in houses, such as basements, and increased risk of 
flooding and erosion damage in our area with the ever-increasing impact of climate change. In 
addition, our extreme weather would pose a threat to the diminished natural habitats and endangered 
species around us.  Preserving the land that has not yet been developed will be essential to maintaining 
the balance in the area with the environmental sensitivities present.  
Overall Economic Benefit 
There are economic challenges that come with an oversupply of housing in our area. We have seen 
strong economic growth with property values steadily climbing over the last few years. With the 
current availability of lots to be built on, including Lakeside Woods, Fenton Drive, and Southampton 
Landing, there are multiple areas under development in the area. Flooding our relatively small market 
with an oversupply of lots could create a negative long-term economic effect and put undue stress on 
developers and land holders in our area. While Lakeside Woods appears to have majority of its lots 
sold, most of the lots are sold to developers and not to individual who plan on building and living in 
a home there. This is creating a false appearance of the demand for these lots in this area. Developers 
are already realizing there is an oversupply and are attempting to resell lots to minimize 
risk. Furthermore, lots in Lakeside Woods have been available for four years, and only four of the lots 
have started the house building process. At that rate, it will be approximately two decades before the 
entire subdivision is developed.  
If residential lots for development are an important item to Council, and it is determined lots are 
needed to continue economic growth in our area, there are areas of Saugeen Shores that would bring 
more value to the region if developed. Compared to a land locked development, which should have 
been developed when the initial first phase of the neighbourhood was developed, I encourage Council 
to look for other areas where growth within our town is sustainable and logical.  
Community Wellbeing and Safety 
Above all else, my highest concern lies with the safety of this project. If we are to assume a similar 
slowed timeline for development as seen in Lakeside Woods, that will mean decades of building to 
plan for.  With the proposal for 14 lots, large equipment, dump trucks and contractors back and forth 
daily for multiple years will put a large strain on road infrastructure and communities that were not 
built with the intention to be through roads. For example, Collard Way and Carter Drive do not have 
sidewalks or shoulders to walk on. An influx of traffic poses a very high safety risk to all of those 
currently living in the community. In addition, 15 children live in the 200m stretch of road to enter 
this new proposed development without the community infrastructure to support their ability to safely 
move around the currently sheltered neighbourhood space. Safety of our residents should be a top 
priority in this case, and this has not been addressed in the current proposal in an adequate way.  
Miramichi Bay Road does not have the infrastructure to support additional traffic, let alone heavy 
traffic. With the erosion of the lakeside trail along the waterfront, I would be very concerned with the 
stress heavy vehicles, as well as additional traffic would put on this infrastructure. In addition, the 
original proposal to add a through road off Miramichi Bay Road near Horseshoe Bay was rejected 
because it created a dangerous level of traffic that is not suited to the existing neighbourhood layout. 
There was strong community opposition to this proposal, and it was rejected because it created unsafe 
conditions for the people who currently reside in the community. This still applies to the community 
residents today. Simply attempting to divert all construction and residential traffic into a small 
residential neighbourhood is a fundamentally unsafe proposal.  
The current development proposal does not consider the key aspects I have highlighted above related 
to the environment, overall economic benefit to our area, and the community wellbeing and safety. I 
urge you to NOT APPROVE the request for development to Miramichi Phase 4. Thank you for 
considering my concerns regarding this proposed development. 
Sincerely, 
Daniel Ingram, P.Eng., MBA 
SUBDIVISION FILE #: 
S-2021-006
“MIRAMICHI PHASE 4 DRAFT APPROVAL”
PUBLIC MEETING DATE: July 19, 2021  6:30 p.m. 
Further to my brief oral presentation, I am providing the following information for the Committee’s 
review and comments.  A great deal of time was spent preparing this and as such, I trust that a 
considerable amount of time will also be spent:  reading it, carefully considering it, researching it at 
your level and then ultimately present plans to resolve the issues of concern.  
Thank you, in advance for your time and effort. 
The items of concern are not listed in any particular priority.  They are listed in alphabetical order 
only.  The sources of reference documents are provided, where required, but the actual documents 
are not individually attached to this report.  They are available on the internet where I found them. 
CUL-DE-SACS 
-
As per the Official Plan of Subdivision, cul-de-sacs are to be no longer than 150m.  These
measurements are taken from the property line of the intersecting roads, along the centre line
of the cul-de-sac to the farthest point of the property line of the bulb.
-
Many municipalities (including but not limited to:  Kitchener, Coldstream, Haldiman County,
District of Hope, Town of Caledon, Oshawa, Huron County), require a secondary emergency
vehicle access route when cul-de-sacs reach a pre-determined length.
(Refer to the Section titled “Solution for Emergency Exit From Phase 1-3” at the end of this
document for additional information regarding secondary emergency access routes.)
-
The existing cul-de-sac configuration for Miramichi Shores (Phase 1-3 only), clearly exceeds
Saugeen Shores’ Official Plan.  Rough estimates for the length of each “leg” are as follows:
400m, 200m, 300m, and 100m for a total of 1000m.  And there is only 1 entrance/exit.
-
The proposed ”Phase 4” addition to our subdivision would add another 325m to a subdivision
with only 1 entrance/exit.  Of particular note, is that Phase 4 is admittedly longer than the
allowed 150m in the Official Plan.  “The proposed subdivision involves the establishment of a 
new municipal street having a length of approximately 325 metres.”
(Reference: 
“Planning Report – Proposed Residential Plan of Subdivision – Miramichi Shores 
Phase Four”, Page 6, Section 4.3 “Road Works”) 
Comment: 
If the Official Plan states that cul-de-sacs can only be 150m maximum in length, then 
why is this subdivision being re-considered for approval?  It is 175m over the approved 
length. 
-2-
EASEMENT/RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS 
-
“Are there any easements or restrictive covenants applying to the subject lands?” 
[  ] Yes         [✓] No 
(Reference:  “Bruce County, Form One, Planning Act Application”, Page 6, Item #14)
-
“Are there any easements or restrictive covenants affecting the subject land?” 
[✓] Yes        [  ] No 
(Reference:  “County of Bruce, Subdivision Application Form”, Page 2, Item #5)
Comment:  
Why is there a difference between the 2 answers?  
EMERGENCY SERVICES/FIRE 
-
In light of the fact that there were no comments provided during this application process
regarding Emergency Services (and more specifically, Fire Protection), I contacted the office of
the Fire Chief and Fire Prevention Officer on multiple occasions.  None of my phone calls were
returned.  That, in itself, is somewhat disconcerting.
-
Some of the questions which I intended to ask are as follows:
Q. Was the Fire Department or Fire Prevention Officer given an opportunity to weigh-in on this
new subdivision?
If “yes”, then what were your comments?  Do you know why those comments were not
included in information package that was made available to the public?
If “no”, then why didn’t the Fire Department have input?
(I believe most municipalities would have requested input from their respective Fire Officials.)
Q. Are there any other subdivisions in Saugeen Shores which have approximately 70 lots (ie. 55
as part of Phase 1-3 + 14 more for Phase 4) with only 1 entrance/exit point?  If so, where is it
located?
Q. The current guestimate for the population of Phase 1-3 is about 155 people ranging from 1-7
per household.  A developer intends to add another 50 people (approximate) to that
population.  From an emergency response perspective, do you have any concerns with getting
access into a subdivision to potentially save 200 people where there is only 1 access?   If so,
explain.
Q. Overall, does the Town have an adequate supply of water for fire protection services as a
result of all these new homes being built in Saugeen Shores?  A report from 2017 (“Functional
Servicing Report”), indicated that there was an adequate amount of water.  However, a
number of homes and a hotel have been built since 2017.
-3- 
 
Q.  Bruce Power has emergency plans in place to be able to respond to its “uniqueness”.  
   Similarly, due to the unique design of our subdivision, the Town must have an emergency plan  
   already in place for it too.  Can you describe to me what the department’s plan is to deal with 
   an emergency especially in the vicinity of the entrance to our subdivision?  What are   
   homeowners expected to do during an event and how are they advised of these  
   requirements? 
 
ENDANGERED OR THREATENED SPECIES 
- 
“Four endangered or threatened species are thought to have moderate to high potential to be 
present on or within the vicinity of the site and three species of special concern.” 
(Reference:  “Environmental Impact Study Update”, Page 4, Section 3.1 “Provincial Policy 
   
        Statement”) 
 
- 
“Seven endangered or threatened species have reasonable potential to be encountered 
incidentally within the development area …” 
(Reference:  “Planning Report – Miramichi Shores Phase Four”, Page 4, Section 3.3  
   
        “Environmental Impact Study”) 
 
- 
“Significant portions of habitat of endangered and threatened species:    
[✓] Yes            [  ] No      Development is not permitted” 
(Reference:  “County of Bruce Subdivision Application Form”, Page 5) 
Comment:   
Regardless if there are 4 or 7 endangered or threatened species, does the County of  
   
  
Bruce Application Form not clearly indicate that development is not allowed if the  
   
 
answer to the question is “yes”? 
 
ENTERING/EXITING MIRAMICHI BAY SHORES (see also “TRAFFIC STUDY”) 
- 
Miramichi Shores (Phase 1-3) consisted of 55 building lots.  Based on our calculations, this 
represents approximately 155 people with households ranging in size from 1 to 7 people each.  
The proposed Phase 4 subdivision is adding 14 more building lots with an estimated 3.5 
people/lot representing approximately another 50 people.  This represents a total of over 200 
people.   
Assuming that existing households use 2 vehicles each, that is 100 vehicles.  This does not 
factor in other vehicular traffic for:  sightseers, construction, service vehicles, delivery 
vehicles, buses, etc. 
(Reference:  “Functional Servicing Report”, Page 8, Section 3.2 “Water Consumption”) 
 
 
-4- 
 
Comment: 
This equates to a high number of people funneling into 1 narrow divided entrance/exit.  
   
 
The increased numbers increases the risk.  Why would the Town consider increasing 
  
  
the existing risk exponentially by adding another potentially 50+ residents and another  
   
 
30 vehicles? 
- 
Since moving into our home in 2008, there have been a number of times when either the 
entrance or the exit to the subdivision (at Collard Way/Miramichi Bay Road) has been blocked 
for:  road repairs, deliveries, service work (ie. light standards, tree removal), Huron Shores 
Walk/Run Events etc. 
   
- 
When the above occurs, homeowners have 2 options: 
1.  Drive on the wrong side of the road in the wrong direction to either enter or exit the  
     subdivision. 
2.  Leave the subdivision prior to the start of the Huron Shores Walk/Run Event and wait until 
     the event is over to return home.  Or do not leave home until the event has finished. 
Comment:   
As a bare minimum, the Town should avoid allowing our sole entrance/exit for events 
   
 
such as the Huron Shores Walk/Run.  Although the event is a significant and worthy 
   
 
event, it impedes function and increases personal risk in our subdivision.   
 
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY 
- 
“Tree and vegetation removal should not occur during breeding season April 1st to August 
31st.” 
(Reference:  “Environmental Impact Study Update”, Appendix H “Tree Retention Plan”, right  
   
        hand side of drawing under “Tree Retention Areas”, 8th bullet) 
Comment:   
Does this mean that prior to house construction, that all tree removal will only occur  
   
       
between September 1st and March 31st?  Who is responsible for monitoring this? 
 
 
 
-5- 
 
OTHER KEY INPUT INTO APPLICATION PROCESS 
- 
On this application, certain organizations and agencies were asked to comment.  However, 
other agencies have had input during different application processes.  Some key contributors 
were not included with this particular application.   
Comment:   
Where are the comments and reports from: 
   
- 
Fire Chief/Fire Prevention Officer? 
   
-  Canada Post? 
   
- 
Ambulance Services? 
   
- 
Public Works (including services such as:  municipal water supply, the life 
   
  
expectancy of landfill site with all the new proposed subdivisions, etc.)? 
   
- 
Grey Bruce Health Unit (regarding “Septic Tank Suitability Report” – as required in  
   
 
the submission from 2008 regarding this property application)? 
   
- 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Area? 
 
- 
any other organization or department impacted by a new subdivision? 
 
 
OTHER SUBDIVISIONS OF MR. PRYDE 
- 
There are references to his other land holdings and developments.  For example:   
- 
Lakeside Woods:   
   
-  Recently created using a “U” shape with 2 entrances/exit points and only 30 lots.  
- 
Pegasus:   
   
-  1 entrance/exit but only 25 lots.  
- 
Miramichi Shores “Phase 4”:   
   
-  He is asking to increase the entire subdivision to approximately 70 lots yet only have 
   
   1 entrance/exit.   
Comment:   
The original Miramichi Shores subdivision was approved in the 1980’s using a different 
   
 
planning process.  Much has been learned since then.  I suspect that adding another 
   
 
cul-de-sac while maintaining limited access points, is not one of those lessons learned.    
  
 
If Mr. Pryde has completed newer subdivisions (ie. Lakeside Woods and Pegasus),   
   
 
since the inception of Miramichi Shores, is he not already aware that size and shape  
   
 
affect the function of the subdivision? 
 
 
 
-6- 
 
“PD” (PLANNED DEVELOPMENT) 
- 
Block 18 is zoned as “PD” or “Planned Development” – “Shoreline Residential”.  It is basically a 
holding zone for future development.  According to various reports (including the Stormwater 
Management Addendum Report), Mr. Pryde is retaining Block 18.  “Block 18 is to be retained 
by the Owner for future development.  Presently designated as “Shoreline Residential” in the 
Saugeen Shores Official Plan.” Then this means that he is intending to develop those parcels 
of PD land at a later date.   
(Reference:  “Stormwater Management Addendum Report”, Appendix A “Stormwater  
      
        Management Report – MaryRose Subdivision – Pryde Schropp McComb Inc –  
   
        Jan 2008”, Page 1, Section 1.2 “Proposal”) 
Comment:   
With that being noted, where would these PD Shoreline Residential lands access an 
   
 
existing road system (such as Miramichi Bay Road) when they are developed?  Is  
   
 
Mr. Pryde planning on purchasing a house along Miramichi Bay Road and then 
   
 
removing it to create a road allowance? *  
Comment:   
Since Miramichi Shores (Phase 1-3) has already met its capacity for size, why can’t the 
   
 
proposed “Phase 4” subdivision also use the same entrance/exit as will be required for  
   
 
the Block 18 PD Shoreline Residential land?   
Instead of linking Mystic Court to Carter Drive, other alternatives would be to use: 
a) 
Mystic Court to Shady Lane (between #158 and #164 Miramichi Bay Road) or  
b) 
Mystic Court to Pine Trail (between #140 and #142 Miramichi Bay Road).   
- 
In 2005, the Planning Advisory Committee refused a homeowners’ request for a variance 
because the Town wanted to protect Shady Lane.  This is the reason given in the minutes: 
“The subject property abuts Shady Lane, which is an unopened municipal road allowance.  
The Town of Saugeen Shores may want to open Shady Lane as a year-round municipal road 
sometime in the future and the proposed 5-foot exterior side yard setback would be 
inadequate in size.  Problems with road maintenance in the winter and snow piling on the one 
side of the road may occur.  Also, if detached dwellings are built along Shady Land in the 
future in accordance with the 20-foot front yard setback of the zoning by-law, the dwelling on 
the subject lands would not be in line with other dwellings on Shady Lane (too close to the 
road).  This would not be orderly development.” 
 
(Reference:  “Minutes of the December 22, 2005 Meeting of the Saugeen Shores Planning 
   
        Advisory Committee/Committee of Adjustment”, Page 3-4) 
(Reference:  “Bruce County Interactive Maps” – assorted images to see Shady Lane and Pine 
   
        Trail) 
 
* A house was moved on Wellington Street between #991 and #975 Wellington Street to create Woodland Drive.  Thus  
   it allowed Arlington Street and Woodland Drive to have 2 access points into the new subdivision.  Precedent established. 
-7- 
 
Comment:  
This is an opportunity for the Town to open Shady Lane and/or Pine Trail and  
   
 
provide Mr. Pryde with the road access he needs to develop the lands previously  
   
 
owned by Mr. Biener (namely “MaryRose Subdivision” or “Phase 4 of Miramichi  
   
 
Shores”).   Some people may say that those are not ideal locations for road accesses, 
   
 
but speed limit signs are posted (20km heading southbound and 30 km heading  
   
 
northbound).  There are also 3 existing driveways already entering at Shady Lane. 
   
 
The Town would just have to add a 3-way stop there.   
- 
In support of the above-mentioned recommendation, there is a letter from Mr. Pryde himself 
   
stating:  “As a point of clarification, Block 18 does have access to a municipal right-of-way at  
   
the northwest corner of the subject property.” 
(Reference:  “Letter from Brad Pryde (Pryde Schropp McComb Inc.) to Bill Hollo (Planning and 
   
   
        Economic Development)”, dated July 7, 2008, Page 2, Section 3 “Boundaries of  
   
 
        Land to be Rezoned”) 
- 
Some may say that joining the parcels of PD land is not preferred – that they are in a 
protected area and should not have a road put through there.  Clearly, there has been intent 
thus far to connect the PD land out to a main road or else they would not have been zoned 
accordingly.  So, yes, it is currently zoned PD with some parts being zoned EH, however, not 
all parts of the land are going to be as significant as others.  Development can be done 
sensitively in small parts of the EH designation using the natural swell.  There is an 
intermittent stream on one part of the land and a small permanent stream in another but a 
culvert can be used to put a road in.  Culverts are used throughout the trail system in that 
land already.   
 
- 
With respect to “seeps and springs”, the “Environmental Impact Study Update” states:  “Seeps 
were identified in the eastern portion of the property by AWS during field investigations in 
2008.  Although not observed by WSP in 2020, the seeps are likely still present.”  And later it 
states in the same document:  “there is no evidence of seeps or springs” and “The 
seeps/springs observed by AWS in 2008 are outside the zone of influence for both temporary 
dewatering activities as well as permanent groundwater changes from the PSS and will not be 
impacted”.  So based on this, the water types will not be a hindrance. 
 
(Reference:  “Environmental Impact Study Update”, Page 17, “Specialized Habitats of Wildlife  
   
        Considered SWH” and Page 20-21, Section 6.1.2 “Unevaluated Wetlands”) 
 
 
 
-8- 
 
- 
Consider as well, that the Town recently approved a unique property at the south end of 
Saugeen Shores at 157 Saugeen Beach Road whereby a home was built on the other side of a 
stream.  Municipal water had to be dealt with along with a number of other unique challenges.  
The Town made accommodations for that property owner and in doing so, a precedent was 
set.  The property in question recently sold.  If accommodations for a stream were made in 
one part of Saugeen Shores, then it can be made in another. 
 
- 
The recommendation to link the PD lands and have them lead out directly onto Miramichi Bay 
Road would, however, involve cutting some more brush.  But the composition of trees linking 
the PD lands is consistent throughout that section of the property (ie. sugar maple, hemlock, 
cedar, red maple), so no unique species would be affected.  According to the tree retention 
plan for Special Policy Area #4, the objective is to minimize tree removal.  However, new trees 
can be planted at a ratio of 2:1 and therefore it is intended to restore what was removed 
during construction.   
(Note:  Trees used to landscape building lots are not included in this ratio.)  
  
(Reference:  “Environmental Impact Study Update”, Appendix A – Figures, “Ecological Land  
   
        Classification/Vegetation Community”) 
 
(Reference:  “Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan”, Pages 80-82, Section 3.20.4, “Special  
   
        Policy Area #4”) 
 
- 
In the big scheme of things, this recommendation would fix traffic flow in Miramichi Shores – 
Phase 1-3 and thus reduce safety risks.   
 
 
PROPERTY LOCATION 
- 
“The subject property is located on Part of Lots 54 and 55.” 
(Reference:  “Storm Management Addendum Report”, Page 1, 3rd paragraph) 
 
- 
“Park Lot 55 and 56, Lake Range, Geographic Township of Saugeen” 
(Reference:  “County of Bruce - Notice of Complete Application”, Page 1 below photo) 
Comment:   
The other documents refer to the site as “Part of Lots 55 and 56, Lake Range …”   
   
 
- not “park” or “54”.  As official documents, the correct information is required. 
 
 
-9- 
 
SEPTIC SYSTEMS 
- 
“It’s worth noting that three existing, newer subdivisions to the south and other existing 
residential development in the general area are also serviced with private septic system and 
there have been no reported problems with this servicing arrangement.” 
(Reference:  “Planning Report – Miramichi Shores Phase Four”, Page 6, Section 4.1 “Water 
      
        Supply and Sanitary Sewage”) 
Comment:   
To my knowledge, there have been at least 3 properties in Miramichi Shores  
   
 
(Phase 1-3) which have had septic issues requiring removing of contaminated soil.   
   
 
(For one property, I am aware of the location but do not recall the year.  For the  
   
 
others, I know locations as well as the years (ie. 2009 and 2021.)  Therefore, the  
   
 
above statement is not accurate.   
Comment:   
In a Miramichi Shores Phase 2 homeowner’s request to add a “secondary unit” to an  
   
 
existing house in 2012/2013, there were concerns by the public and Town officials  
   
 
about the environmental impacts from increase septic use and the addition of another  
   
 
septic system on a lot or increasing the size of the existing tank/tile bed.  A  
   
 
councillor also expressed concerns about the number of septic tanks along the 
   
 
shoreline, in general.  Yet, bordering onto the same subdivision in question, there is 
   
 
a request before the Town to add an additional 14 septic tanks.  Adding another  
   
 
14 lots does not negate those concerns about contaminated soil in proximity to  
   
 
Lake Huron.  Please explain. 
 
 
(Reference:  “Draft Planning Advisory Committee/Committee of Adjustment Minutes”, 
   
 
 
        dated February 2, 2012, Pages 2-3, Section (c) “Zoning By-law 
   
 
 
        Amendment Z-73-11.44”) 
- 
From a previous subdivision approval request:  “The Health Unit reviewed the material 
submitted by the applicant, most particularly the Septic Tank Suitability Report.  The Health 
Unit notes some concerns related to groundwater conditions, and implementation and 
construction solutions.” 
 
(Reference:  “Town of Saugeen Shores Planning Report – Draft Approval of Plan of 
                  Subdivision”, File # 41T-2007-12.44, Page 3, Item “II”) 
 
- 
“Development of over five lots on private services (full or partial) require the preparation of a 
Settlement Capacity Study.” 
 
(Reference:  “Town of Saugeen Shores Planning Report – Draft Approval of Plan of 
                  Subdivision”, File # 41T-2007-12.44, Page 4, Item “VI”) 
 
-10- 
 
Comment: 
Was the Settlement Capacity Study completed?  If so, why was it not included in this  
   
 
application process? 
- 
Although the Health Unit did not provide an updated Septic Tank Suitability Study, Pryde 
Schropp McComb Inc. did provide a report in 2007 (14 years old) regarding septic tanks.  The 
findings include:  “groundwater was encountered in the test holes … from 0.4 meters below 
the surface to 1.0 metres below the surface.  Based on this information it is likely that a 
conventional system (Class 4) will require a large amount of fill to get above the water table 
and for the mantle area.  To lessen the footprint of the disturbed area associated with the 
installation of individual sewage disposal systems, the SVCA recommends the proponent be 
required to install “small bed systems” thus reducing the footprint and the number of trees to 
be removed”.   
 
(Reference:  “Letter from Jo-Anne Harbinson (Environmental Planning Coordinator) to  
   
        Bill Hollo (Bruce County Planning and Economic Development Department)”,  
   
        dated April 10, 2008, Page 4, Section (b) “Septic Tank System Suitability Study 
   
        for MaryRose Subdivision”) 
Comment: 
Do new septic tanks not have to meet a minimum size as per the Ontario Building 
    
Code and Grey Bruce Health Unit Guidelines based on occupancy, bathrooms, etc.?   
    
Do the home size specifications already listed in the website advertising “Miramichi 
    
Shores Phase 4” not require a larger septic tank/tile bed system to meet those Codes?  
 
    
(Reference:  Website:  miramichishores.com, “Architectural Guidelines and Community 
    
 
        Design”) 
Comment:  
Is the Town following other Ontario municipalities whereby new regulations are in  
   
 
place to ensure that building lot sizes are adequate to accommodate 2 tiles beds:   
   
 
1 is the primary tile bed and the other bed is a back-up (secondary) one?  Based on  
   
 
the comments above from the Pryde Schropp McComb 2007 report, it is saying   
   
 
that only a small bed can be accommodated in the Phase 4 subdivision.  If so, if there  
   
 
isn’t enough room for a normal size tile bed, then there certainly isn’t enough for a 
   
 
secondary/back-up one.   
   
 
What are the Town’s plans for keeping up with new septic system requirements for  
   
 
new subdivisions when municipal sewers are not available? 
 
Comment: 
The more septic tanks the Town permits along the shoreline, increases the risk of  
   
 
septic tank failures in the area.  Does it not equate to that? 
 
 
-11- 
 
SIDEWALKS 
- 
“That the owner(s) shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement to provide sidewalks and 
pedestrian linkages throughout the subdivision to promote active transportation and safe 
walking routes.” 
(Reference:  “Letter from Bluewater District School Board”, Item 4) 
 
- 
“Along the frontage of each lot, a 5.0m depth of undisturbed vegetation shall be maintained 
except for the following: 
a)  driveway access, utility services (water, storm, hydro) (max 8m) 
b)  lot filling to achieve lot grading requirements” 
(Reference:  “Environmental Impact Study Update”, Appendix H “Tree Retention Plan”, along 
   
        right side in very small print, 5th bullet) 
Comment:   
Based on the Environmental Impact Study guidelines, the “owner(s)” will be unable to  
   
 
create sidewalks as specified by the Bluewater District School Board.  Now what? 
 
SPECIAL POLICY AREAS 
- 
According to the Official Plan, Special Policy Area #4 includes the area of Carter Drive to  
South Street.  It states that “development requires consultation with Saugeen Valley 
Conservation Authority”.   
(Reference:  “Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan”, Pages 80-84) 
Comment:  In the list of files attached to this application, there were no comments provided by the 
   
      Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority.  Why was SVCA not requested to provide  
   
      feedback?  And if they did provide comments, why were they not included in this  
   
      application process? 
Comment:  It appears that part of the proposed subdivision is part of Special Policy Area #4.  Why  
   
      then is it being considered for development? 
 
Comment:  If developer after developer approaches the Town to approve a new subdivision in Special 
   
      Policy Area #4, what is the point of having that special designation?  In the end, won’t  
   
      most lands become residential developments anyway? 
(Reference:  “Planning Report – Miramichi Shores Phase Four”, Figure 2 “Town of Saugeen 
  
     
   Shores Official Plan Schedule A”) 
 
 
-12- 
 
TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY 
- 
“Though not required previously, a traffic study is going to be undertaken.” 
(Reference:  “Stormwater Management Addendum Report”, last page, Item “f:  Traffic Study”) 
Comment:  
Will the approval of the subdivision await a decision until the findings of a traffic study 
   
 
are made public and considered by the Committee?  Who selects the company to 
   
 
conduct the traffic study? 
   
 
And when is this study going to be conducted?  After the subdivision plan is approved? 
   
 
If so, wouldn’t that be the equivalent of putting the cart before the horse?   
   
 
Would the study be conducted in the dead of winter or during peak periods such as in  
   
 
the summer?  Or perhaps occur during a time such as the Stay-at-Home Order during  
   
 
COVID 19 when the majority of people were not travelling? 
Comment:  
Would the study address the following topics: 
  
 
- internal traffic flows in the development? 
  
 
- proposed road design standards to accommodate the projected traffic loadings? 
  
 
- potential on-street parking problems and recommended solutions? 
  
 
- pedestrian and bicycle movements?  
  
 
- traffic impact on adjacent areas? 
  
 
- any other issued deemed necessary for the specific development? 
- 
“the number, width, location and proposed grades and elevations of highways, and the 
adequacy of them, and the highways linking the highways in the proposed subdivision with 
the established highway system in the vicinity and the adequacy of them;”   
“Comment:  This small-scale development should have no impact on the road pattern in this 
shoreline area.” 
 
(Reference:  “Planning Report – Miramichi Shores Phase Four”, Page 32-33, Section 7. “The  
   
        Planning Act”, item (e)) 
Comment:   
The issue of transportation was not adequately addressed in the Planning Report or 
   
 
in any other report.  As previously mentioned, in the section titled  
   
 
“Entering/Exiting Miramichi Bay Shores”, we repeat the following for consideration: 
- 
Assuming that each existing household uses 2 vehicles each, that is 100 vehicles.  
This does not factor in other vehicular traffic for:  sightseers, construction, service 
vehicles, delivery vehicles, buses, etc. 
- 
There have been a number of times when either the entrance or the exit to the 
subdivision (at Collard Way/Miramichi Bay Road) has been blocked for:  road 
repairs, deliveries, services (ie. light standards, tree removal), Huron Shores 
Walk/Run Events.   
 
-13- 
 
 
- 
This equates to high number of people funneling into 1 narrow divided 
entrance/exit.  The increased numbers increases the risk.  Why would the Town 
consider increasing the existing risk by adding another potentially 50+ residents 
and another 30 vehicles? 
 
- 
In the event of an emergency, how does the Town expect all the residents to get 
out of the subdivision and merge onto Miramichi Bay Road with all the other 
traffic?  How is it possible for the Committee to agree to the comment:  “This 
small-scale development should have no impact on the road pattern in this 
shoreline area.”? 
 
- 
“Town staff have commented by whether the proposed servicing is consistent with the Official 
Plan.  The Town also commented that consideration must be given to providing a secondary 
access to the subdivision.  The proposed single entrance further exacerbates the single 
entrance provision made for the Miramichi Shores subdivision to the south.  In other words, 
even more lots are proposed with only one route out of the development”. 
 
(Reference:  “Town of Saugeen Shores Planning Report – Draft Approval of Plan of 
                  Subdivision”, File # 41T-2007-12.44, Page 2, Item “II”) 
 
- 
In the “Meeting of the Saugeen Shores Planning Advisory Committee – Committee of 
Adjustment” meeting of August 7, 2008, Diane Huber (Councillor) was one of the people who 
were very concerned about the fact that there is only 1 entrance and exit to/from Miramichi 
Bay Shores – Phase 1-3.  This was in consideration of an emergency event.  I recently 
acquired a copy of the Minutes of that particular meeting, however, the minutes did not 
capture all the discussions that had transpired that evening.  At the time of writing this report, 
I was advised that more detailed information may be available in a “Staff Report” from that 
meeting.  But I have not yet received a copy of the “Staff Report” for review and comment.  
Committee members who have access to said report, should consider reading it. 
However, the original meeting minutes do indicate that the following issues were raised by the 
public (homeowners):   
-  
prior to J. Biener’s request for an approval of a plan of subdivision, homeowners or 
    
prospective purchasers were not aware of an intention to transform an existing 
   
building lot into a street entrance 
-  
need sufficient parklands to remain in the subdivision 
- 
wildlife needs to be protected 
-  
trees need to be retained 
-  
traffic safety was a concern 
 
 
-14- 
 
- 
Committee comments at the meeting: 
“Q. 
What liability exists if town assumes road with limited access rest of road system?” 
Comment: 
What is the Town’s answer to the above question as it was not included in the Minutes  
   
 
of Meeting from August 7, 2008? 
 
(Reference:  “Committee of Adjustment Meeting Minutes”, August 7, 2008, item (b)  
   
 
        “Plan of Subdivision 41T-2007-12.44”) 
- 
“In considering a plan of subdivision, the approval authority evaluates the merits of the 
proposal against criteria such as: 
- 
conformity with the official plan and compatibility with adjacent uses of land 
- 
compliance with local zoning bylaws 
- 
suitability of the land for the proposed purpose, include the size and shape of the lot(s) 
   
being created 
- 
adequacy of vehicular access, water supply, sewage disposal 
- 
the need to ensure protection from potential flooding” 
(Reference:  Ontario Government, “Citizen’s Guide to Land Use Planning”, “How Applications 
   
 
        for Subdivision are Evaluated”) 
Comment:   
Has the above criteria been reviewed – especially “adequacy of vehicular access”?  If  
   
 
so, what were the findings? 
 
WATER SUPPLY 
- 
“Indicate the proposed water supply system:  Pubic piped water system” 
(Reference:  “County of Bruce Subdivision Application Form”, Section 12 “Sewage Disposal  
   
        and Water Supply”, Item (b)) 
 
- 
“Services Currently Available, or to be Available:  Proposed – Municipal”  
(Reference:  “Bruce County Form One Planning Act Application”, Page 5, Item #12) 
 
- 
“Public piped water system:  Municipality must confirm that capacity will be available to  
  
service development at the time of Draft Approval.”   
 
   
(Reference:  “County of Bruce Subdivision Application Form”, Section 12 “Sewage Disposal 
   
                  and Water Supply”, Section “Water Supply”, item (a)) 
 
Comment:  I am not an authority, but I would suspect when asked, most people would respond that 
   
      they would prefer “public” (as in domestic/municipal water) as opposed to “pubic” water. 
 
 
-15- 
 
Comment:  Has the Town confirmed that they can meet capacity requirements for water for this  
   
      and/or any other new subdivisions?  If so, where is the Town’s letter of comments  
  
      regarding the status of the infrastructure?  How much more capacity can it take?  When is  
   
      it due to be updated?  Will a new facility need to be built?  If so, when? 
 
 
WATER TABLE AND DEWATERING 
- 
In the nearby Lakeside Woods Subdivision, there was a permit allowing dewatering at 
discharge rates up to 2,600,000L/day to lower the water table. 
(Reference:  “Hydrogeological Report Permit”, Pages 1-2, Section 1.1) 
 
- 
Cobide Engineering has indicated in their report that they are “prepared to support an 
application for permit to take water permit to take water required for the temporary 
dewatering during construction”. 
(Reference:  “Functional Servicing Report”, Page 7, Section 2.7 “Groundwater/Hydrogeology”) 
Comment:  Will this dewatering process occur as it did in the vicinity of Highland Street and Sandy 
   
      Acres Road whereby loud pumps were running for 24 hours/day?   
   
      Will flooding occur in some basements as it did to a certain residence on the corner of  
   
      Parkwood Drive and Highland Street when those dewatering processes were conducted?   
  
      Will existing homeowners in Miramichi Shores Phase 1-3 have their town-approved  
   
      sandpoints affected during and after this dewatering process?   
   
      Will the dewatering process affect the trees and vegetation on our properties?  
   
      If so much dewatering has to be done, is it an ideal location for septic systems to be  
    
      installed? 
 
 
 
-16- 
 
SOLUTION FOR INCREASED TRAFFIC FLOW AT THE ENTRANCE INTO PHASE 1-3 
- 
Currently there is only adequate width for 1 vehicle to drive on each lane past the island.  If 
one side is blocked, there is no other option but to drive on the “wrong” side of the road.  
Clearly, this is not the safest method of travel.  The solution below will solve that problem, 
albeit at the cost of the aesthetics of the entryway into the subdivision. 
1. 
Remove the island at the entrance to Miramichi Shores Subdivision. 
2. 
Move the light standards as follows: 
   
- the one closest to lake be placed on the south side of Collard Way to illuminate the  
   
  entrance into the subdivision 
   
- the one in the middle could be located on the lot line between the 2 lots on the north  
   
  side of Collard Way 
   
- the one closest to where Collard Way and Carter Drive separate (at the end of the  
   
  existing island) be placed on the north side of the street to illuminate the fire hydrant 
3. 
This should mean that if a service or delivery vehicle was parked to one side of the  
   
entrance/exit at Collard Way, other traffic should be able to pass without incident.  
   
Safety first. 
 
SOLUTION FOR EMERGENCY EXIT FROM PHASE 1-3 
- 
Presently, if an emergency should occur in proximity to the entrance to the subdivision, no 
one is able to leave the area. 
 
- 
I now know that prior to the purchase of our building lot, behind-the-scenes meetings were 
already being formulated between developers to give up a Phase 3 Building Lot #5 (later 
considered Lot #24) so that a new entrance into a proposed subdivision on the north side 
could be created.  In lieu of the lot, Mr. Clancy would acquire one of the new lots on  
MaryRose Court (now Mystic Court).  I suspect that no other lot purchasers were informed 
either of possible changes to the subdivision configuration which may have ultimately affected 
their decision to purchase land here. 
   
- 
Although the new road allowance could technically be returned to a building lot (albeit a 
narrower lot because the excess land not required for the street allowance was given to the 
property owners on either side), it is unlikely that Mr. Pryde or Mr. Clancy will consider that 
option even though it would just be a matter of removing a small stretch of curbing to achieve 
that goal. 
 
 
 
-17- 
  
- 
In the event that the curbing is not allowed to be removed (for some unknown reason), here 
is an alternative solution to the problem. 
- 
Mr. Pryde joins Mystic Court along with his PD lands in Block 18 thereby creating the need for 
a new street system which will connect directly to Miramichi Bay Road.  This can be done via 
one of the options recommended in the “PD – Planned Development” section above.  The new 
subdivision would be independent of Carter Drive.   
- 
The only link that would connect Miramichi Shores to this new separate street system would 
be by transforming the Phase 3 Building Lot #5 (or lot #24 on the plan of subdivision) into a 
Secondary Emergency Access corridor.  This link would be paved and maintained year-round 
as is done in many municipalities.  But the corridor would not be used as a day-to-day 
thoroughfare.  It would only be used by Emergency Vehicles (ie. fire, ambulance, and police) 
or if an evacuation order of Miramichi Shores was required.  The rest of the time, it would be 
treated as a paved walking/bicycle path.  Visually it would look similar to what Mr. Pryde used 
to link his Lakeside Woods subdivision to Miramichi Bay Road. 
- 
Based on criteria which is consistent with other municipalities, secondary emergency accesses 
are usually: 
- 
designed to prevent or discourage use by private residents or delivery vehicles 
- 
passable and maintained including snow and ice control on a year-round basis 
- 
protected by removable vehicular restriction devices at each end, as required 
- 
have a minimum width of 6.0m and an overhead clearance of not less than 5m 
   
(this is in order to accommodate emergency response vehicles such as fire trucks) 
 
 
-18- 
 
IN SUMMARY 
The Application to create a residential subdivision consisting of 14 detached dwelling lots known as 
“Miramichi Shores Phase Four” subdivision (File # S-2021-006) is flawed and has serious concerns. 
Of most significant concern are those issues related to health and safety, including but limited to: 
- 
length of cul-de-sac with only 1 entrance/exit 
- 
emergency services response (primarily at the entrance/exit to the subdivision at Collard Way 
   
and Miramichi Bay Road) 
- 
lack of support during the application process from key players, ie. Grey Bruce Health Unit, 
   
Fire Chief/Fire Prevention Officer 
- 
risk to the safety of surrounding lands and Lake Huron due to possible septic tank failures  
- 
traffic impact 
- 
lack of secondary emergency access point 
Based on the above list and if I were in the Committee’s position to vote, this would be my 
preference:   
   
         NO FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF MIRAMICHI SHORES SUBDIVISION.  PERIOD. 
However, if the Committee (and ultimately the Town) ignores key issues presented in this document 
and accepts liabilities and chooses to proceed with the development of these lands, then my next 
preferences (as a homeowner in Miramichi Shores) would be (in order): 
   
1. 
Mystic Court is only connected to Miramichi May Road and is independent of  
   
 
Miramichi Shores Subdivision except for the secondary access link. 
  
2. 
Mystic Court is connected to both Miramichi Bay Road and Carter Drive 
As a Committee, you cannot undo the original design of Miramichi Shores which was approved about 
40 years ago, but you can certainly ensure that an existing problem is not compounded further.  That 
would be very irresponsible on your part to do so, in my opinion.   
While community development is a given, it does not have to be done in such a way that it adversely 
affects the residents of Saugeen Shores, and in this particular case, specifically those in  
Miramichi Shores subdivision Phase 1-3. 
If you approve this application request, then the Committee (on behalf of the Town) is essentially 
saying that other factors are a higher priority than health and safety.  Is that where the Town’s 
priorities are?  Is that where they should be? 
 
-19-
The bottom line is … adding more building lots will just exacerbate a problem.  It will not fix it nor will 
it improve it.   
As was mentioned before, to what level of liability is the Town willing to assume if this subdivision is 
approved as proposed? 
In my opinion, it is incumbent upon the Committee and the Town to find a resolution to this issue and 
in doing so, hopefully and potentially reduce its liability and ensure the safety of its residents. 
HEALTH AND SAFETY IS A #1 PRIORITY.  YOU CANNOT DENY THAT. 
Prepared and Submitted by:  L. Staddon 
Petition for subdivision File #S-2021-006
chris murphy 
Thu 7/15/2021 4:49 PM
To: Jay.Pausner <Jay.Pausner@saugeenshores.ca>; Port Elgin Planning <BCPLPE@brucecounty.on.ca>
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
To whom it may concern,
I would like to submitting a petition in regards to the proposed land development subdivision file #S-
2021-006 Miramishi shores Phase 4 development. Please see attached photos.
Let me know if you would like the original copies. 
I would also like to register to speak at the public meeting on July 19th if possible. 
Thanks for your time!
Chris Murphy. 
Dear Kristan Shrider 
I would like to bring forth my concerns for the proposed subdivision in Miramichi Shores. File #S-2021-
006. As a resident of the current subdivision, I can see how the addition of a new subdivision would
impact the safety of the families living there.   My concerns are with lack of emergency access points,
especially with the addition of 14 more houses, and the destruction of trails and wetland areas that
would be affected. One of the main reasons we moved into that area was for the fact that it was a nice
quiet area to raise our young children. We feel safe there, and there is a strong sense of community with
the current residents, we all look out for each other. I hope that the decision to expand is not one driven
by monetary gains alone. I hope that you consider all sides when it comes time to vote.
Thank you for your time and consideration.
Kelly MacLean
Hello, I would like to be notified of the public meeting time and date and also kept in the loop on any information 
related to this application please.
Thanks so much.
Randy Fehr
August 9, 2022 
 
Letter to the Town of Saugeen Shores Council 
Reference:  “Miramichi Shores Application #S-2021-006” 
 
 
Before I proceed too far into my assessment of this application, I want to advise you that there are a series of 
questions at the end which you should answer after reading the following explanation.  PLEASE do not skip 
directly to the end as you will miss critical points which could affect your answers to the questions.  Thank you 
in advance for respecting this request. 
Overview … 
I am one of your taxpayers and have been for 37 years.  Although it may seem as though I am just sitting 
quietly along the sidelines and not active in local events or politics, I can assure you that is not the case.  And 
to prove to you how invested I am in this particular application process alone, here is a summary of my 
involvement thus far: 
1. Aug. 7, 2008: 
Attended the public meeting on Subdivision File # 41T-2007-12.44  
   
 
(originally called the “Mary Rose Subdivision”) 
   
 
(involving Joe Biener and Brad Pryde) 
   
 
- for the record, my husband and I did not approve of the application then either 
2. July 15, 2021:   Submitted my preliminary comments to Daniel Kingsbury  
   
 
– for inclusion in the Planning Dept. Meeting (20 pages) (via email) 
3. July 19, 2021:   Participated in Planning Dept. Meeting (via zoom) 
4. July 21, 2021:   Added my name to the “Notification List” for this application  
   
 
(via the County of Bruce Planning Dept.) 
5. Aug. 11, 2021:   Submitted a “Letter to the Editor” (Saugeen Times) 
6. Aug. 13, 2021:   Sent a “Planning Mtg. Follow-up With Councillors” document to Council  
   
 
(via email to Tracey Edwards) (17 pages)  
   
 
(no acknowledgement or response received from anyone - disappointing) 
7. Sep. 8, 2021:   Email sent to Council and Amanda Froese re:  cul-de-sacs with only  
   
 
1 entrance/exit after a storm hit Port Elgin 
   
 
(again no acknowledgement or response received – disappointment #2) 
8. Aug. 4, 2022:   Submitted a 2nd “Letter to the Editor” (Saugeen Times) 
9. Aug. 9, 2022:     Sent further comments to Council prior to Aug. 15, 2022 Planning Meeting 
   
 
(via email to clerk@saugeenshores.ca) 
 
Note:  If you are missing the correspondence from “Aug. 13, 2021” or “Sep. 8, 2021”, please let me  
            know immediately and I will forward another copy to you. 
 
-2- 
 
In addition to the above, I have also: 
-  been following up with Daniel Kingsbury (Senior Planner) monthly as to the status of this application  
-  been doing copious amounts of research on my own and solicited the latest application-related reports  
   (which are no longer readily available due to the “Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act”) 
-  typed (as verbatim as possible) a transcript of the Miramichi Shores segment of the July 19, 2021  
   Planning Meeting.  
It was the transcript mentioned above that helped me prepare the document listed in Item #6 above.  It took a 
great deal of time to not just record the questions you posed, but to provide you with the information you 
should have received that evening from those who you relied upon for answers and clarification.  And where 
necessary, I corrected the information you were provided with to ensure that you were duly informed - as 
some answers you received were either vague or were even ignored.  I sincerely appreciated the interest that 
some members of Council gave Mr. Ingram, Mr. Murphy and I during our time slot in the Planning Dept. 
Meeting, so I took the time to complete the task on my own accord.  It was the least I could do in return.  It 
was disappointing, however, that no one from Council acknowledged receipt of the information I prepared. 
 
Now let’s discuss the latest and greatest … 
There are so many errors and shortcomings with this application that it is difficult to know where to begin.  As 
a result, the items which follow are listed in no particular order.  But I trust these points will be of interest to 
you as you deliberate this application request.   
As is the case with the latest “Letter to the Editor”, a lot of the information is from the reports which were 
submitted after the public meeting.  So the information is new or the items represent new questions and 
comments. 
1. Town Policies, Procedures and Guidelines: 
 
I expect that a great deal of thought, time and effort were expended to develop the “Official Plan”, the 
“Subdivision and Site Plan Development Guide” and other administrative documents.  So for that 
reason, I wonder why the governing documents do not seem to be adhered to when making decisions.   
 
Are those documents not for that exact purpose?  Are they not explicitly designed to ensure requests 
are evaluated on a level playing field and in doing so, ensure that issues are being consistently 
addressed in the same way?  I would think that their existence would encourage you to revise and 
develop better plans and procedures as you go forward?  If they are not being implemented as 
written, then why do they exist?  Are they solely in existence because a higher level of government (ie. 
County, Province, Federal) dictate that there must be something written down somewhere?  Surely, 
that is not the case. 
 
 
 
-3- 
 
2. Safety: 
- 
Although Mr. Snyder was required to include 2 emergency egress access points in his Woodlands 
Subdivision Application (#S-2021-002), the same stipulation was NOT made of this Applicant’s 
subdivision application which, by the way, was being deliberated at the same time.  Why not?  
Without a doubt, you are implying that the residents of Acton Drive are more important than 
some of the rest of us – thereby they get multiple emergency egress points plus openings at either 
end of their street by which they can come and go … and we don’t even get one emergency egress 
over and above our one and only entrance/exit!  If this isn’t the perfect example of double-
standards, I don’t know what is.   
- 
There are a few options available to you which would provide Miramichi Shores residents with an 
emergency access point: 
a)  Shady Lane connection 
b)  Pine Trail connection 
c)  Pegasus Trail connection  
When Phase 2 of Miramichi Shores opened up, my husband and I considered lots #14 and #15 
prior to purchasing a different lot.  As you are aware, in approx. 2006 the size of both lots #14 and 
#15 were altered (narrowed) to provide for an emergency vehicle corridor to extend from the cul-
de-sac “bulb” in front of them to the trail behind the lots.  Cedar trees were planted to provide 
these subsequent lot owners with some privacy.  However, the trees have now become so large 
that the original corridor is difficult to visualize – but it is still there.  So the Town has the option of 
linking that corridor (without the overgrown cedars) and connect it southward to Pegasus Trail as 
an alternate emergency access.  This would result in altering the existing trail to make it suitable 
for vehicles in the event of an emergency.  It would also result in the expropriation of land to 
accomplish this task.  But expropriation of land for the sake of street allowances and such 
provisions has previously been done in Port Elgin (and likely in Southampton as well), so a 
precedent has already been established in that regard.  
3. Petitions:   
- 
Many of the residents in Miramichi Shores Phase 1-3 signed the handwritten petition which was 
forwarded to you by Christopher Murphy in July, 2021.  However, I freely admit that not all 
residents signed the petition.  Why did we not get 100% of the signatures, you might ask?  It is 
because when certain homeowners were asked to sign the petition, the petitioner was advised by 
the homeowners that the Subdivision Applicant had previously offered them “deals” if they 
promised to refuse to sign Mr. Murphy’s petition once it was presented to them.  Were you aware 
of this?  Are you concerned by this behaviour?  Is this typical and considered appropriate 
behaviour of a Saugeen Shores’ developer? 
 
 
 
-4- 
 
- 
Mr. Murphy also initiated an online petition to save the woodland from being destroyed for the 
sake of housing.  Hundreds of people have signed that petition – which in comparison, represents 
more signatures than you received from those people against the development of the significant 
woodlands at Bay Street in Southampton in 2019.  In addition to the handwritten petition, I trust 
you will take our online petition “signatures” into consideration too as they represent a large 
number of concerned civic-minded people - many of which represent your taxpayer and voting 
demographic. 
 
4. Protection of Woodlands: 
 
During the Town’s official response (with Bayshore Broadcasting on July 13, 2022) about the recent 
acquisition of woodlands from Summerside*, you said that you are fulfilling your mandate.  That is 
commendable that the trees will be protected, for the foreseeable future at least.  I am thankful that it 
will be the case.  However, I wonder if there is a pattern to take note of?  For example, does the Town 
allow 3 applicants (ie. for Southampton Landing, Woodlands/Acton Drive and Lakeside Woods) 
permission to have their woods destroyed for the sake of housing development and then the Town 
acquires (by donation* or an offering of sorts) 1 piece of woodland in an effort to save grace?  As 
people have said over and over again, once the woodlands are gone, they are gone forever and they 
are not coming back.  No amount of tree planting on a residential lot will replace the density of the 
forest.  In mathematical terms, 3 ≠ 1.  Just saying, the 1 feather in your cap does not justify the loss of 
3 woodlands, in my opinion. 
(* Out of curiosity, did the transfer of woodlands from “Summerside” not involve the same applicant 
than is intending to destroy the forest in this application process?  If so, what a convenient business 
trade, in my opinion, should this application be approved.) 
 
5. Official Plan (OP): 
 
What happened to Section 3.7.5 “Shoreline Residential Exceptions”?  I would be very interested in 
reading this section; however, the text seems to have disappeared from the current Official Plan.   
 
Luckily, I have a copy of what it said in 2008, and interestingly enough, it stated the “Goals” were: 
a)  to recognize the cottage/residential areas along the shoreline that do NOT HAVE PIPED  
     MUNICIPAL SANITARY SEWER SERVICES 
b)  to PROVIDE LIMITED OPPORTUNITIES FOR NEW HOUSING UNITS on private individual  
     on-site sewage disposal systems by way of infilling and minor expansions to existing built-up 
     residential areas 
c)  to direct ANY DEVELOPMENTS GREATER THAN 5 LOTS/UNIT to locations in the “Residential”  
     designation which have available municipal sewer AND water capacity.   
 
So is this why the section was removed from the current Official Plan?  The text was intentionally 
eliminated so you can accommodate developers interested in creating subdivisions of more than 5 lots 
where there are no municipal sewer services available?     
 
 
 
-5- 
 
6. Preferential Treatment?: 
 
Similar to what was just stated above, it would appear from an outside perspective that special 
treatment is being offered certain people, businesses and developers in this area.  One example is the 
decision in June 2007 whereby municipal water service was provided through a private driveway at the 
end of a subdivision cul-de-sac to provide a private barn with domestic water.  How many others 
(located where there are no municipal services available), have been afforded a similar opportunity 
while others have been denied?  I am aware of at least one other request which was denied after the 
June 2007 one had been approved. 
 
7. Spec Houses: 
 
Ron Davidson (Planning Consultant for this Applicant) said, in his address to Council on July 19, 2021, 
that NO developers were speculating in Lakeside Woods.  I would appreciate hearing  
Mr. Davidson’s explanation of #3 Lakeside Woods Crescent?  As of Aug. 6, 2022, it has been on the 
market for 100 days at $1,650,000 and the listing indicates that some finishes are being left for the 
purchaser to decide.  That certainly sounds indicative of a “spec” house to me. 
 
8. Developers: 
 
- 
As quoted in my Letter to the Editor (Aug. 5, 2022), “it is typical of developers to maximize 
development potential in order to maximize profits.  They do this by hiring highly-paid consultants 
who are pro-development, take direction from the developer who is paying them and deliver results 
that are favourable to the developer.  The Town and the County should require that all developers’ 
reports be subject to peer review by professional consultants selected by the municipality and paid 
for by the developer.  This is not an uncommon practice by local government”.  Developers are 
thinking of one thing and one thing only … money and more specifically their own money.   
 
Case in point:  A Toronto Star article claimed that developer, [this Applicant’s name], told them 
that many of the homes in the Pegasus Trails subdivision will back onto a 45-acre natural area 
which he has agreed to NEVER develop.  It was done to avoid adversarial situations with SVCA, he 
claimed.  And by creating an agreement with the Escarpment Biosphere Conservancy, [this 
Applicant’s name] gets a substantial tax break.  Tax break equates to $$$ (money).  The article 
further states that “usually” these agreements are binding in perpetuity, but it did not specify if 
this particular agreement was fully binding or if it was one of those which may later qualify as an 
exception-to-the-rule.  Does the new Lakeside Woods subdivision encroach into this 45-acre 
protected area?  Or was the binding agreement released from perpetuity because something 
better came along, ie. the chance to develop further?  If this is correct, what happened to the 
Conservancy agreement?  Does the tax right-off have to be adjusted accordingly? 
 
 
-6- 
 
9. Roof Leaders/Eavestroughing: 
- 
The SVCA have stated that all eavestroughing is to be directed to the rear of the lots.  What about 
the new lots (mainly #1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 14) which would back onto existing lots in Miramichi Phase 1 
(lots #12, 13 and 14) and onto Phase 3 (lots #8, 9, 10, 11 and 12)?  Will these 8 existing homes be 
negatively impacted afterwards when they will have more water runoff headed in their direction?  
And if so, whose responsibility will it be to fix the problem that has been created and pay for 
damages?  Those 8 homes in the earlier phases likely all have basements and do not have 
provisions such as “100-year flood guarantees” written on their Titles to protect them.   
Note:  There are various statements written in Saugeen Shores municipal documents which clearly 
indicate that water (including roof drainage) cannot be discharged onto an adjacent property.  
However, I have not yet read in any of the Applicant’s reports, statements which would assure 
Phase 1 and 3 homeowners that NO water will drain from Phase 4 lots and then onto their 
neighbouring properties. 
- 
To help you further understand the potential severity of the situation, I recall how a number of 
homes on Wellington Street had water issues in their basements after the Town approved the 
Snyder Subdivision Development to the east of Wellington Street (ie. Brentwood, Briarwood, 
Oakwood, Maplewood and Woodland Drive).  Would Miramichi Shores Phase 4 also not result in a 
not-so-neighbourly-and-favourable problem here too?  And there have been other locations in 
town where flooding occurred after new subdivisions were either created or expanded upon.  
Have lessons not been learned from these events which would justify changes to the subdivision 
approval processes?   
10. Tree Retention Plan: 
 
As the SVCA indicated in their Feb. 18, 2022 letter, “who” and “how” will this plan be managed when 
there is no Tree Cutting Bylaw in Saugeen Shores?  The Applicant said (in his correspondence with the 
SVCA on Apr. 4, 2022), that in his opinion, “the best policing related to this matter are adjacent 
residents”.  Seriously?  So the Applicant’s reasoning skills would suggest that if a neighbour complains 
to another about trees being cut down, the one homeowner will just put the felled trees back up again 
so the trees will continue to thrive and thus make his/her neighbour happy once again?  Neighbours 
may have opinions on the matter of tree removal but they have absolutely zero authority.  To think 
otherwise is ludicrous and unreasonable, in my opinion.   
 
 
-7- 
  
11. Basements: 
- 
SVCA wrote:  “SVCA staff further recommend proposed residences do not have basements given 
the high groundwater table in the area and this this also be noted on the grading plan/site plan”.  
In addition, on all Cobide drawings they have added a comment in very small print which states 
“Cobide Engineering Inc. assumes no responsibility for basement conditions due to ground water.”  
Obviously, they are also aware that basements would be an issue or else they wouldn’t try to 
protect themselves.  Did you notice Cobide’s disclaimer on your own?  Does it not concern you 
that they needed to add this to the application documentation? 
- 
I would certainly hope that a pre-approved Site Grading Plan would not allow a work-around so 
that a “basement” could be built out of the ground as appears to have been built at  
#20 Lakeside Woods – another development owned by this Applicant.  How did that house’s 
grading plan get approved - especially when you view the grading from the street side and on the 
north side of the lot? 
12. Wetlands: 
 
In the SVCA letter to the County of Bruce (July 19, 2021), it states that “SVCA hazard mapping including 
flooding hazards associated with the watercourse and flood-prone lands associated with the wetlands.  
Wetlands also feature unstable organic soils that are NOT suitable for development (ie. hazardous 
sites).  Wetland mapping … crosses proposed Lots 11 to 14”.  Would you be interested in buying  
Lots # 11, 12, 13 or 14 knowing this?  Would you recommend one of these lots to a family member or 
to a friend? 
 
13. Block 17: 
 
According to one document (“Stormwater Management Addendum Report”), the Applicant/developer 
is going to retain that block.  However, the SVCA said that they want the northeast corner of the 
subject property rezoned from “Planned Development (PD)” to “Environmental Hazard (EH)”.  This 
rezoning to the “EH” designation is to be complete BEFORE they will sign off on this application.   
(In all likelihood, the Applicant is only agreeing to this rezoning change to serve his own best interest, 
ie. he will have another opportunity to enter into an agreement with the Escarpment Biosphere 
Conservancy (or similar agency) so he will qualify for yet another substantial tax break. 
   
My questions regarding the rezoning are:   
- Has a rezoning application been submitted to change Block 17 from “PD” to “EH”?  If so, what is its  
   status?   
- And if the Applicant is keeping Block 17 or any other “PD” lands, it will ultimately mean:  destroying  
  more forested area, affecting more wildlife, affecting the “temporary” and/or “permanent” trail  
  system, etc.  Have you considered what development is before you today … and what applications  
  could be before you in the future for this property? 
 
 
 
-8- 
 
- As the Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) had stated in their letter of Apr. 20, 2022:  “at what point do  
  incremental incursions into significant woodland become significant negative impacts?”.  Are you not  
  worried about the remaining parcels of “PD” lands within Part of Lots 55 and 56 and how it will affect  
  the remaining woodland? 
14. Mary Rose Court: 
 
Where is this court?  Even newer documents attached to this application refer to “Mary Rose Court”.  
However, the “Mary Rose” street name was reassigned elsewhere in Saugeen Shores in 2020 – 2 years 
ago!  You would think that the professionals would update their records accordingly as an exercise in 
attention-to-detail.   
 
15. On-site Septic Tank Systems: 
- 
The fact that septic tanks are proposed in a wetland environment should result in an automatic 
denial of this application, in my opinion.   
As an exercise in common sense, combine these factors together and let me know if you come up 
with the same conclusion that I did.  Start now … take the fact that there is supposed to be an 
enforceable Tree Retention Policy (ie. keep lots of trees) combined with the minimum setbacks 
from a septic tank and leaching bed from all trees/shrubs (ie. lots of green space is required) 
combined with having an area that is well-aired with lots of sunlight to reach the surface of the 
leaching bed (ie. have less trees to avoid shade) combined with the Ontario Government 
requirements (ie. min. of 15m from a watercourse, min. of 3m to a lot line, min. of 5 m from 
leaching bed to the house, etc.) combined with the risk of septic tank failure combined with high 
ground water table combined with the location of the water intake for Southampton … how is it 
going to be possible to safely meet all the criteria into one of those building lots?  On one hand 
you need lots of trees.  Yet on the other hand you can’t have the trees.  Take into consideration 
trees and vegetation tend to become unstable when surrounding land has been disturbed and 
when the daily volume of liquid (from sewage effluent) is added to the soil.  So all the trees you are 
trying to save (and we want saved), will likely not survive.  Is this something you are willing to risk?  
Has there been any thought given to what some communities are doing whereby the size of the 
building lot must be sufficient to provide a secondary leaching bed should the first one become 
unusable?  If so, then these particular building lots are not sized appropriately. 
- 
I have also been trying to locate a report (dated Dec. 2007) which has been mentioned frequently 
in the original application process (for Mr. Biener) and carried over into this Applicant’s subdivision 
application.  It is called the “Septic Tank Suitability Report”.  I have asked Daniel Kingsbury (Senior 
Planner) for a copy of the report, but he has been unable to locate said document either.  If you 
have it, I would be interested in reading it.  However, since it was prepared by Pryde Schropp 
McComb Inc., I suspect it will just say what the developer wants it to say anyway.  But I would still 
be interested in reading it since I have found that many documents, intended to support this 
application, are actually flawed and outdated.  
-9- 
 
- 
In an article from the Bruce Peninsula Biosphere Association (July 2020), they wrote about the 
250,000 waterfront properties in Ontario.  At the time of writing, 56% of the septic systems were 
20 years old and some have never been re-inspected.  Data collected by ESSE Canada, showed 41% 
of systems which had been inspected, however, had major deficiencies.  Public Health in Owen 
Sound used to have a re-inspection program but once septic systems were removed from their 
jurisdiction and transferred to the local Chief Building Official, it was up to the municipalities to 
choose to continue with a re-inspection program or not.   Assuming that Saugeen Shores does NOT 
have a re-inspection program, then it has to be assumed that the Town is not proactively 
concerned about septic tank failures and the potential for hazardous sewage to get into the 
property’s soil and beyond.  That, in itself, is rather disturbing.   
- 
To further emphasize the potential risk of septic tank failures in proximity to the shoreline, there 
are approximately 200 properties with septic tanks along Miramichi Bay Road between  
McCannel Lane and the 10th Concession alone (including Miramichi Shores, Pegasus Trail and 
Lakeside Woods).  And then to the south of the 10th Concession there are that many more 
properties with septic tanks which would include Cutter Road and North Shore Road to the point 
where it meets Port Elgin’s municipal sewer system.   
- 
Contrary to the Applicant’s claims that all is well here, there have been at least 3 septic failures 
alone in Miramichi Shores.  In an article by “Elliott and Elliott” (Barristers and Solicitors dealing 
with Real Estate Law), they stated that the Ontario Onsite Wastewater Association noted in their 
publication “Septic Smart” that Ontario investigators estimate 30% of the 1,000,000 household 
septic systems are failing to protect the environment.  The case numbers alone are staggering but 
even more so when you factor in the environmental damage too.   
16. Trail System: 
 
In his response to the SVCA on Apr. 4, 2022, the Applicant said “with the approval of the subdivision, 
the owner plans to … enter into an agreement with the municipality for a permanent trail system”.   So 
if you don’t approve this application, then you sacrifice a “permanent” trail agreement?  The first thing 
that comes to mind is the saying “you scratch my back and I will scratch yours”.  Is that the premise on 
which these application decisions really occur?  
 
17. Oil Grit Separator for Total Suspended Solids (TSS) Removal: 
 
In the “Stormwater Management Addendum Report” (dated March 2022), Section 5.3 states “The 
Hydro First Defence Model FD-HC …. attached as Appendix F.”  The FD-4HC OG5 model specified 
removes only 84% of the TSS.  Why wouldn’t the FD-8HD model be specified instead when it removes 
93% of the solids rather than 84%?  Why would you settle for a lesser, more ineffective model 
considering the proximity to Lake Huron? 
 
 
-10- 
 
18. Permit for Dewatering: 
 
While the subdivision application process was initiated in early 2021, the first public Planning Meeting 
to discuss it did not occur until July 19, 2021.  Therefore, I find it interesting that even though the 
subdivision application had not yet been approved, the Ontario Government – Environmental Registry 
of Ontario, had already given their approval for dewatering by issuing a “Permit to Take Water” 
(Permit #1081-C5DJRA) on Aug. 6, 2021.  In other words, the permit was issued BEFORE the 
subdivision application had even been approved.  How can that occur?  Are there not a series of checks 
and balances to ensure events occur in the correct sequence?  In addition, the 1st page of the permit 
indicates it was available for comment from Mar. 5–Apr. 4, 2021.  However, how would any of us have 
known about the existence of the permit at that time?  How convenient that likely not one of us had 
an opportunity to comment on it in time. 
 
19. Cul-de-sacs: 
 
When you get through all the rest of the reports related to this application, you still have to deal with 
your own “Saugeen Shores Subdivision and Site Plan Development Guide” which states on Page 153, 
“Cul-de-sacs shall be permitted when they are 150m or less in length measuring from the intersecting 
right of way to the end of the cul-de-sac.”  The developer is asking for 325m for this extension alone 
which is 2x your acceptable limit.  That in itself is grounds to reject the application.  And when you add 
Phase 4’s 325m to a cul-de-sac that is already approx. 7x over the limit, there is NO way this 
subdivision application can be justified.   You wrote the above-mentioned guide, so now, please abide 
by it.  Just say “no”. 
 
I apologize if I appear to be relentless as I carefully and painstaking have reviewed this application.  I am not 
doing it to appear to be difficult – rather, I am trying to help you come to the same conclusion as I had done a 
year ago.  I am also astutely aware that you continually have a multitude of reports to read and digest and the 
last thing you need is to have more reports at your disposable.  However, you likely only get one more chance 
to make the right decision on this application and this happens to be that chance.  So, contrary to what you 
may be thinking, my intention is to ensure you look at as many facets of this application as possible.   
At the end of the day, your conscience will remind you if you approached and dealt with this project using all 
tools and knowledge at your disposal.  And will you remember to use common-sense and wisdom while 
respecting the greater good of our community when making your final decision – and not just consider the 
benefit to one developer?  Remember, in the end, most of us want the same thing … to make our community 
the best it can be.  Not the best one it can be for certain individuals, but the best community overall for 
everyone.   
And let’s face facts;  the Applicant has:  a multitude of companies, interests and/or partnerships and other 
projects in progress, so it isn’t a question of “all-or-nothing” with this particular application.   
I am well aware that the Applicant is not only our neighbour in Miramichi Shores, but that you likely consider 
him to be a major “property developer” in Saugeen Shores.  You likely rely on him to bring you repeat business 
which will generate revenue in one way or another.   
-11- 
 
This is likely only a partial list of his business ventures which is solely meant to show you that the Applicant has 
multiple irons in the fire, so to speak: 
1. 
DunnCap Hospitality Group (ie. Holiday Inn, Staybridge Suites Hotel) 
2. 
Lord Elgin Estates Development Ltd. (ie. apartment buildings, Summerside) 
3. 
Miramichi Shores Land Development Ltd. 
4. 
Mystic Cove Developments Inc. (ie. Lakeside Woods, Mystic Cove I and II) 
5. 
Pegasus Trails 
While you might know the applicant’s name best from applications such as this, you should be aware that I 
know another side of him - other than being a neighbour.  Without going into specific details, I will share with 
you that on October 28, 2021, he waited for me to exit a business and then verbally attacked me specifically 
related to this application.  Regretfully, I did not report it to the Police.  I was then, and still am, shocked by his 
unprofessional and unbusiness-like behaviour, in my opinion.  While you may casually think otherwise, I can 
assure you that my comments and concerns about this application are not directed to the Applicant himself.  
Rather they are about the application as a whole and what it will ultimately mean for our subdivision and our 
community.  Nothing more.  Nothing less.  If the Applicant chooses to take aim at me again, I will continue to 
stand for what I believe in.  I will hold true to my own values.  I will support my community and in a sincere 
way.  
We cannot ignore the fact that this is a significant year in more aspects than one.  Not just with respect to the 
pandemic.  Not just with respect to storms as the result of climate change.  Not just with respect to the war in 
Ukraine … but also with respect to a Fall election.  I suspect a lot of concerned residents will be watching and 
waiting for the results of this application and others too as the results may ultimately and significantly impact 
their own decision-making processes in a few months’ time.  As a community, we may not be able to obliterate 
the pandemic, nor can we stop a war, but the community can affect change (if required) at Election time. 
I know that sometimes progress in a community can only be truly measured once the project is complete (ie. 
the grand opening of the hospital in Southampton after extensive renovations).  And yet there are other times 
when progress can be more easily measured in small increments (ie. the changes occurring as the Lamont 
Sports Park as it continues to take shape).  But I fail to comprehend how these particular 14 houses will effect a 
larger or more positive sense of progress in our community when in all likelihood they will create an adverse 
situation once everything has been factored in, then said-and-done. 
That is why I have been trying to get the community interested in this issue through my participation in the 
Planning Department Meeting and through my Letters to the Editor.  And hopefully once residents become 
interested in even just one issue, they will become more community-minded overall and will become vested at 
even higher levels of participation.  Because ultimately in the end, decisions made by Council will either mean 
our community can reap the benefits of those decisions … or alternatively, suffer the consequences of said 
decisions.  I, for one, don’t want to suffer. 
Respectfully, 
Lynn Staddon 
QUESTIONS FOR EACH COUNCIL MEMBER TO ANSWER  
PRIOR TO PLACING YOUR VOTE ON APPLICATION #S-2021-006 
 
Regarding the Application #S-2021-006: 
YES 
NO 
 
1. 
Have I followed all guidelines, procedures, rules, bylaws etc. as provided to me by 
Saugeen Shores?   
(Including but not limited to the Official Plan, Subdivision and Site Plan Development 
Guide, etc.) 
 
 
 
2. 
Will my vote support Saugeen Shore’s mandate to protect our natural assets, ie. 
significant woodland preservation? 
 
 
 
3. 
Regarding the petition signatures of:  residents of Saugeen Shores, visitors to 
Saugeen Shores, previous residents of Saugeen Shores and other civic-minded people 
… Do those signatures represent any intrinsic value during the application processes?   
(If “no”, perhaps the volume of their signatures suggests that I am missing something 
important that they have seen.) 
 
 
 
4. 
Has Block 17 been rezoned from “PD” to “EH” prior to the approval of this application 
(as per SVCA’s request)? 
 
 
 
5. 
If there was an accident or natural disaster which prevented the residents of 
Miramichi Shores (including Carter Drive and Collard Way) from being able to get out 
of the subdivision to safety, would I feel responsible knowing that I could have been 
an advocate for the implementation of an emergency access route for that 
subdivision? 
 
 
 
6. 
Will my vote on this application contravene the County of Bruce Official Plan? 
 
 
 
7. 
In May 2000, Walkerton became known Canada-wide for its contaminated water 
crisis – which by the way, was completely preventable.   
Do I want Saugeen Shores to become known for another type of crisis, ie. 
contaminated drinking water or people who lost their lives because they could not 
exit their subdivision during an emergency?   
If “no”, then I am indicating that my preference is for Saugeen Shores to be “on the 
map” for the right reasons.   
 
 
 
8. 
Are homeowners solely responsible for Tree Retention Policies and governance 
within Saugeen Shores?   
If “no”, then I am agreeing that a municipal department (with related governing 
documents) will be responsible for managing this program instead.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding the Application #S-2021-006: 
YES 
NO 
 
  9. 
Am I in favour of supporting a subdivision of houses which cannot have basements 
because the high water table is not suitable for that kind of development?   
If “no”, then I am agreeing to support homes without basements for certain 
applications only, ie. 1-level senior townhome development, 1-level residences 
designed for those with disabilities, etc. 
 
 
 
10. Do I support building homes on wetlands knowing that the inherent characteristics of 
wetlands deem them unstable and unsuitable for development? 
 
 
 
11. Do I support the installation of septic tanks in areas with high groundwater levels 
and/or wetlands? 
 
 
 
12. Based on the findings of subject-matter experts whereby 30-40% of septic tanks will 
result in failure, will I vote to add more septic tanks in this area which could 
potentially:  contaminate the soil, leach into Lake Huron and contaminate the 
drinking water for Saugeen Shores? 
 
 
 
 
I hope you found these questions to be helpful in determining where your priorities lie on some of the key 
points in this application.  Please vote accordingly and remember that when voting, you are representing each 
member of our community since we can’t vote on this matter ourselves.  Thank you. 
