BRUCE  COUNTY 
Local Data Resource for 
Non-Profit Housing Developers 
2024 
2 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Contents 
Introduction ........................................................................................... 3 
Role of Bruce County as Service System Manager for Housing and Homelessness ......4 
Role of Community Development Office (CDO) ................................................ 5 
Data Resource Methodology ....................................................................... 6 
Census Low-Income Cut Off (LICO) Data ......................................................... 7 
Low-Income Measure (LIM) ......................................................................... 7 
Core Housing Need (CHN) .......................................................................... 8 
Community Housing Registry Data ................................................................ 8 
By-Name List Data ................................................................................... 9 
Existing Community and Deeply Affordable Rental Housing Stock ......................... 9 
Summary ............................................................................................. 10 
Let’s Work Together to Increase the Availability of Affordable Housing ................ 10 
3 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Introduction 
Affordable housing is a challenge not only locally, but also provincially and nationally. 
Low vacancy rates and lack of housing supply have led to high rental costs. Further, 
there is a particular need to address housing for vulnerable populations.  
To implement sustainable solutions, support from all levels of government and a 
high-level of collaboration with key stakeholders in our community is essential. 
Building affordable housing of various types and forms in Bruce County will create 
housing options that reflect the life stages of individuals and families, contribute to 
the development of complete and inclusive communities, and support community 
well-being and prosperity. 
Based on the Demographic Housing Study prepared by KPMG, research themes from 
Bruce County’s Community Development Office, and feedback from community 
stakeholders, there is a key role for not-for-profit housing development with 
government supports in the creation of transitional, supportive, and deeply 
affordable housing. 
As such, the data and recommendations contained within this resource document 
provide information specific to deeply affordable housing need across Bruce County 
based on low-income indicators, core housing needs, community housing waitlist, 
and By-Name List data. 
https://imfg.munkschool.utoronto.ca/report/the-municipal-role-in-housing 
4 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Role of Bruce County 
as Service System 
Manager for Housing 
and Homelessness 
As the Service System Manager, Bruce County, 
through its Housing Services Division, is responsible 
for the delivery and administration of provincially 
mandated social and affordable housing programs, 
as well as initiatives to prevent and address 
homelessness.  
Within the continuum of housing, the Housing 
Services division focuses on programs and services 
related to deeply affordable housing and housing 
stability supports, emergency shelter, transitional, 
and supportive housing and homelessness solutions. 
As a Service System Manager, Bruce County also has 
the legislated responsibility to administer and fund 
social housing and maintain Service Level Standards 
(SLS). In Bruce County, SLS include the provision 
of 981 units of rent geared to income assistance or 
provision of a portable housing allowance. 
Bruce County Housing Services also administers 
the Community Housing Registry (waitlist) for 
community housing providers and with rent 
subsidies.  
Bruce County works with local municipalities, 
non-profit housing providers, and other community 
agencies to support the development of deeply 
affordable housing. These continued partnerships 
are instrumental in assisting our most vulnerable 
residents. 
5 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Role of Community Development 
Office (CDO) 
The CDO provides coordinated leadership and strategic focus on projects impacting 
growth, development and economic well-being of Bruce County and member 
municipalities.   
One of the most important areas of focus for the Community Development Office is to 
identify ways that the County and member municipalities can increase the supply and 
affordability of housing. 
The Community Development Office leads work on housing using a multi-disciplinary, 
cross-functional team model. Working across multiple Departments and Services 
including Land Use Planning, Housing & Homelessness Support Services, Economic 
Development and Government Relations, staff come together to identify actions and 
implement local housing solutions to complex housing issues across Bruce County. 
In collaboration with the Housing Services Manager, the Community Development Office 
is focused on delivering services to help non-profit housing providers develop affordable 
housing projects in Bruce County. To achieve this goal, the Community Development 
Office will offer several services, including the new Housing Concierge Service, which 
will be available to non-profit housing providers who want to deliver affordable housing. 
As part of the Housing Concierge Service, County staff will be available to assist non-
profit housing providers with the following services: 
• Share data and best practices research with non-profit housing providers; 
• Connect non-profit providers to municipalities with an available supply of surplus 
land; and 
• Act as a connector, communicator, and facilitator between non-profit housing 
provider and regulatory staff at the County and municipalities, as applicable; 
• Assist non-profits to access government funding to develop affordable housing 
projects. 
In addition to the above services, the Community Development Office will provide 
information sessions, communication about the need for affordable housing, advocate 
for funding from other levels of government, and will look at ways to reduce the cost of 
creating affordable housing in Bruce County. 
6 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Data Resource Methodology 
The data in the following tables was obtained from the KPMG Demographic Study, Bruce 
County housing data, the centralized housing registry (waitlist), and the By-Name List, 
as well as 2021 Census Data, and 2016 Census Data from the eight Bruce County Census 
Subdivisions (CSD) Municipalities, with Bruce County geographic regions calculated totals 
or averages.  
Data has been aggregated within three distinct geographic regions in Bruce 
County, as follows: 
2021 Census Data Limitations 
The Census provides reliable information about people and housing units in Canada by 
their demographic, social and economic characteristics. Low-income cut off (LICO) and 
Low-income measures (LIM) data from 2021 will be summarized in this report.   
However, the 2021 Census significantly underestimates low-income measures across 
Canada due to the temporary COVID-19 income support programs in place during May 
2020 Census collection.  
Core Housing Need is a statistic produced in collaboration with the Canada Mortgage and 
Housing Corporation (CMHC) to support housing programs and policies in Canada.  
However, as Core Housing Need is particularly underestimated in the 2021 Census, 
2016 Census data is instead reported. (Canadian Income Survey, 2020 (statcan.gc.ca), 
Understanding 2021 Core Housing Need Data (ubc.ca)).  
Given the above, 2016 Core Housing Need is the recommended data set to be 
utilized and Census data tables should be used for comparison purposes only. 
Peninsula Region 
• Municipality of Northern Bruce Peninsula 
• Town of South Bruce Peninsula 
Lakeshore Region 
• Municipality of Kincardine 
• Town of Saugeen Shores 
Inland Region 
• Municipality of Aaron-Elderslie 
• Municipality of Brockton 
• Township of Huron-Kinloss 
• Municipality of South Bruce 
7 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Census Low-Income Cut Off (LICO) Data 
The low-income cut-off, after tax (LICO-AT%) measures the total percentage of the 
population expected to spend at least 20% more that the average household on the 
necessities of food, shelter, and clothing, considering family size, community size, and 
income.   
The following table summarizes the percentage of families with incomes below the low-
income cut-off (LICO), based on 2021 StatsCan data, collated by geographic region in 
Bruce County.  
Low-Income Measure (LIM) 
The Low-income measure, after tax (LIM-AT%) is a Statistics 
Canada measure calculating percentage of a population in 
low income after tax using the Low-Income Measure (LIM). 
The low income measure (LIM) is used to determine 
eligibility for some income-based services across Bruce 
County, including the housing stability fund.  
The following table summarizes the averages percentage 
of households in low income (LIM), based on 2021 StatsCan 
data, collated by geographic region in Bruce County. 
  
Geographic Region 
Population 
Percentage of Families with Incomes 
below LICO* 
Peninsula Region 
13,541 
2.25% 
Lakeshore Region 
28,176 
2.35% 
Inland Region 
30,300 
3.63% 
*The 2021 Census significantly underestimates low-income measures due to temporary 
COVID-19 income support programs in place during May 2020 Census collection. 
Geographic Region 
Population 
Average Percentage of Households in 
Low Income (LIM-AT%)* 
Peninsula Region 
13,541 
12.0% 
Lakeshore Region 
28,176 
7.8% 
Inland Region 
30,300 
12.2% 
*The 2021 Census significantly underestimates low-income measures due to temporary 
COVID-19 income support programs in place during May 2020 Census collection. 
8 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Core Housing Need (CHN) 
Households in Core Housing Need (CHN) live in unsuitable, inadequate, 
or unaffordable dwelling and cannot afford alternative housing in their 
community. For more information, please refer to Core housing need in Canada 
(statcan.gc.ca).  
The following table summarizes the total households and percentage of households in 
Core Housing Need according to the 2016 Census. 
Community Housing Registry Data 
As the Service Manager, Bruce County’s is responsible for managing the Community 
Housing Registry and report the data quarterly.  
In 2023, the community housing waitlist included over 1000 applicants. The applicant 
type has remained steady with 40% of the applicants looking for a one-bedroom unit in 
an adult building, 30% of the applicants are seniors and the other 30% are families.  
Geographic Region Population 2016 Census 
Total Number 
of Households 
in Core Housing 
Need (CHN)* 
2016 Census 
Average 
Rate of Core 
Housing Need* 
2016 Census 
Average Rate 
of Renter Core 
Housing Need* 
Peninsula Region 
13,541 
445 
7.7% 
28.4% 
Lakeshore Region 
28,176 
925 
9.1% 
28.3% 
Inland Region 
30,300 
1050 
10.2% 
31.2% 
*Housing Indicators by Tenure 
9 
Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
By-Name List Data 
The By-Name List is a real-time list of all people 
experiencing homelessness and using homelessness 
response services in Bruce County. The By-Name 
List helps service providers prioritize needs, tracks 
changes in housing status, and provides information 
regarding demographics and chronicity.  
By-Name and sheltering data is updated quarterly 
on the Human Services website. Bruce County staff 
are working with the Canadian Alliance to End 
Homelessness to ensure data reliability and validity 
to build a homelessness response model with a rural 
lens. 
Existing Community and Deeply 
Affordable Rental Housing Stock 
Currently, Bruce County Housing Corporation owns and operates 699 units of community 
housing across Bruce County (651 RGI units, and 48 affordable and modest market units) 
and provides a place to call home for more than 1,200 residents.  
Non-Profit Housing Providers provide an additional 68 units of community housing owned 
and operated by the following non-profits: Russell Meadows in Kincardine (43 units) and 
Formosa Seniors Non-Profit (25 units).   
Additionally, between 2008 and 2021, Bruce County as System Service Manager flowed 
money to private developers and non-profit organizations to build affordable rental 
units. 
A summary of community housing and affordable units by geographic region is contained 
in the report below: 
Geographic Region Community Housing Units Affordable Units 
Total 
Peninsula Region 
96 
19 
115 
Lakeshore Region 
365 
86 
451 
Inland Region 
305 
0 
305 
10 Local Data Resource for Non-Profit Housing Developers 
Summary 
• Low-income indicators demonstrate a need for more deeply affordable housing 
across all geographic regions in Bruce County, with slight prominence in the 
Inland Region. 
• The 1000+ waitlist applications highlight the need for more non-profit housing.  
• The by-name list identifies an ongoing need for supportive and transitional 
housing for people experiencing homelessness, who can often be missed in other 
population statistics. 
• Ongoing collaboration with local municipalities, and increased collaboration 
with non-profit housing providers, and other community agencies is integral to 
supporting the development and provision of deeply affordable housing. 
Let’s Work Together to Increase the 
Availability of Affordable Housing 
Are you a developer, builder, landlord, non-profit, engaged community group, or 
homeowner interested in creating affordable housing in Bruce County? 
1. Bruce County has developed an Affordable Housing 101 Guide and two Affordable 
Housing Toolkits that provide information on the context for affordable housing 
creation in Bruce County and its local municipalities, with step-by-step guides, tools, 
and other resources to support your projects. 
• Explore the Affordable Housing 101 Guide 
• Explore the Affordable Development Toolkits: 
• Multi-Residential and Ground-Related Affordable Housing 
• Additional Residential Units 
2. Reach out to Bruce County’s new housing concierge program for information, 
guidance, and funding programs that are available to support the development of 
affordable housing. 
• Contact us at: 1-800-265-3005 or housingconcierge@brucecounty.on.ca. 
Bruce County has remained committed to its vision and
has cultivated and developed strong partnerships within
the community to broaden awareness and acceptance of
the need for more affordable housing. 
A special thank you to County Council, County staff, local municipal
councils and staff, and all of our community partners and developers for
their dedication, commitment, and innovation that is resulting in Better
Housing Choices for all for our residents who call Bruce County Home.
For more information please contact: 
Bruce County Housing Concierge Program 
1-800-265-3005 
housingconcierge@brucecounty.on.ca 
© 2024 County of Bruce. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be 
reproduced in any form or by any means without the written 
permission of the County of Bruce. 
