Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
Additional Residential 
Units Guide 
Best Practices for Adding More 
www.saugeenshores.ca 
Units to Your Home. 
1 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents 
3 
Introduction 
4 
Objectives 
5 
Type of ARUs 
15 
Common Considerations 
18 
Best Practices 
20 
Checklist 
2 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
An Additional Residential Unit (ARU) is a self-contained residence, with kitchen and  bathroom facilities, on a 
property with a single-detached house, semi-detached house or townhouse. They can be inside or outside your home. 
Depending on where they are  located, they can be referred to as basement suites, laneway homes, garden suites, tiny 
homes, in-law suites or granny fats. 
Previously, ARUs were referred to as Secondary Dwelling Units, since only one could be added to a property. Now, up 
to three (3) ARUs are allowed per property, including up to two (2) within the main house and up to two (2) detached 
from the main house for larger properties. 
ARUs can help provide much-needed housing supply, while maintaining the charm of existing neighbourhoods. The 
Town reworked our policies to ensure the suitable implementation of ARUs in Saugeen Shores. 
See By-law 56-2022 and By-law 57- 2022 for detailed amendments to the Ofcial Plan and Zoning By-law, respectively. 
We created this guide to help our residents learn about ARUs, and walk through some of the considerations and best 
practices involved in creating them. Visit www.saugeenshores.ca/ARU to learn more. 
3 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
For Saugeen Shores, key benefts of Additional 
Residential Units (ARUs) include: 
Afordability 
ARUs contain all the necessities but are smaller in size, 
and are  more afordable to own, rent, and maintain for 
both homeowners and tenants. 
Financial Benefts 
ARUs can provide rental income and help homeowners  
relieve fnancial burdens related to mortgage payments 
and maintenance costs. 
Accommodating Family Members & Aging in Place 
ARUs provide a way for  families to keep loved ones 
close by, while giving each member more space and  
privacy. Many seniors also look to downsize when it 
becomes difcult to live in  larger homes. ARUs can be 
more accessible, and thus prolong independent  living 
for seniors. 
Optimize Existing Infrastructure 
ARUs make efcient use of existing services, such 
as water and electricity, with little impact on the 
surrounding neighbourhood. 
Safety 
The new regulations will help bring existing informal 
arrangements up to  the Building, Electrical, and Fire 
Codes, which will enhance safety for both  residents and 
neighbours of ARUs. 
Sensitive Density 
ARUs can help provide much-needed housing supply, 
while maintaining the charm of existing 
neighbourhoods. 
Supply Housing 
ARUs can provide both young adults who are moving 
out and downsizing seniors an opportunity to stay in 
the community they love. They also provide more 
housing options to everyone in the community. 
Sustainability 
ARUs are smaller and utilize existing services. They are 
more  energy-efcient, optimize the use of land and 
minimize the environmental  footprint of new housing. 
4 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
Types of ARUs 
Within your home, an ARU could be in the form of a basement suite, an upstairs suite,  or an addition. 
As a part of an accessory structure, an ARU can be converted from an  existing garage or pool house 
or built as a new coach house or granny fat. 
Renovating 
Your Home 
Example: Second Floor Suite 
A retiree renovated his semi-detached home 
to add an ARU. He was starting to have trouble 
climbing stairs, so he renovated the frst foor to 
create a bedroom and an accessible bathroom, 
then added a kitchen on the second foor to 
create another unit to rent out. Instead of 
creating a separate entrance from the outside 
of the house, he renovated the front hall into 
a shared entrance and made sure to have the 
entrance soundproofed with additional fre 
separations. 
5 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
An Addition to 
Your Home 
Example: Rear Addition 
A young couple built an addition to the back of their 
home to create an ARU. They were expecting their 
frst baby, so they prepped a guest suite for when 
parents come to visit and help out. They designed 
the addition with the same height and look as the 
main house so that it blends in nicely. 
6 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
Converting an Existing 
Accessory Structure 
Example: Existing Pool House 
A family in Port Elgin converted their underutilised 
pool house into an ARU. Their grandmother was 
having a hard time keeping up with the maintenance 
of her old house, so they agreed it would be a good 
time for her to downsize and move closer to the 
family. As the pool house was not built as a place to 
live, its interior was gutted and replaced with suitable 
insulation and wiring. Servicing was extended from 
the main house to supply power and to add water 
and wastewater connections. The bedroom, 
bathroom, and kitchen components of the unit 
were built to accessibility standards to help their 
grandmother live independently with ease. They 
also installed a new walkway with lighting and a 
gentle ramp to the door to ensure their grandmother 
can access the unit freely if she needed to use a 
wheelchair or other mobility aids. 
7 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
A New Accessory Structure 
Example: Coach House with a Garage 
A couple in Southampton built a coach house with a garage underneath to create an ARU. Their friend moved back 
to the area and was looking for a new place, so they worked out to host him in a separate unit on their property. As 
the couple had two cars and their friend had another, they decided to include a new garage with this unit to provide 
sufcient parking. Servicing was extended from the main house to supply power and to add water and wastewater 
connections. They added a separate, private meter for the ARU to keep utility payments simple, which also helps 
if they decide to take new tenants when their friend moves out. 
8 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
Frequently Asked 
Questions 
Can I have an ARU? 
The Town’s new regulations allow ARUs on legally 
conforming lots in any zone, where the main building 
is a single-detached house, a semi-detached house, or 
a townhouse, subject to the following conditions. 
1. For lots in Agricultural (A) zones, the lot area must 
   be greater than 0.8 hectares. 
2. For lots outside of Agricultural (A) zones that are 
    partially or not connected to municipal services, the 
    lot area must be greater than 0.4 hectares or it 
    must be shown that private servicing is supported 
    by a Nitrate Study (as per Section 4.7.5.8 of the 
    Bruce County Ofcial Plan).
    ARUs are not permitted on non-conforming lots. 
    For example, an ARU is not allowed on a lot with an 
    existing bungalow in an Environmental Protection 
    (EP) zone, since no new residential units should be 
    added in environmentally sensitive areas. 
In the case where a property does not, but is really 
    close to meeting the requirements, an option could 
    be to pursue a Minor Variance from the Zoning 
    By-law, to have it be considered on a case-by-case 
basis. 
9 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
How many ARUs 
can I have? 
For lots in Agricultural (A) zones, one (1) ARU is 
permitted for lots larger than 0.8 hectares. The ARU 
can either be within, attached to, or detached from 
the main building. The ARU is permitted in addition to 
temporary residences for seasonal or part-time farm 
operations. 
For lots that are partially or not connected to 
municipal services outside of Agricultural (A) zones, 
one (1) ARU is permitted if the lot is larger than 0.4 
hectares or if a Nitrate Study (as per Section 4.7.5.8 of 
the Bruce County Ofcial Plan) can show that private 
servicing is supported at the location. The ARU can 
either be within the main building or 
an accessory building. 
10 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
Where can my 
ARU be? 
For an ARU within the main house, it can be anywhere 
within the house, as long as it is properly 
self-contained with its own kitchen and bathroom 
facilities. For ARUs in an addition or an accessory 
structure, where they can be situated depends on 
the zone of your property, the size and shape of your 
property, and the location of any openings such as 
windows and doors. 
Properties with ARUs have the same requirements 
on minimum lot area, lot frontage, lot coverage, and 
setbacks as per their respective zones, except for the 
rear yard setback. ARUs have a minimum rear yard 
setback of three (3) metres. Table 2 provides 
examples of where ARUs can be in residential areas, 
consult the Zoning By-law and the recent Recent 
Zoning By-law Amendment for more details. 
11 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Setbacks for detached ARUs in R1, R2, R3 & R4 zones. 
Zone 
Front Yard 
Exterior Side 
Yard 
Interior Side Yard 
Rear Yard 
R1, R2, or R3 
6.0 m 
4.5 m 
1.2 m, for buildings up to 
5 m in height 
1.5 m, for buildings greater than 5 
m in height 
No setback is required between 
the common wall divides 
residential units as 
in a semi-detached house 
or street townhouse 
3.0 m 
R4 
6.0 m 
4.5 m 
3.0 m, for street 
townhouses 
No setback is required between 
the common wall divides 
residential units 
3.0 m 
For ARUs in rural and agricultural areas, a Minimum Distance Setback (MDS), which represents the minimum distance 
between new development and existing livestock facilities, must be maintained. See MDS Formulae and Guidelines 
from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Afairs for more details. The Ministry also ofers AgriSuite, which 
contains online tools to calculate the MDS based on the number and type of livestock, the type of manure system, 
the size of the lot, etc. 
12 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
Can I have a mobile or 
temporary ARU? 
A temporary ARU is often referred to as a Garden Suite 
and is governed via a temporary use by-law. An existing 
Garden Suite may be converted into a permanent 
ARU, please consider the potential costs and verify the 
requirements with our building staf. 
A temporary ARU may be created when a permanent 
ARU is not suitable or not permitted. For example, a 
homeowner plans on renovating his entire home to 
make it more accessible. He has a garage that is set two 
(2) metres from the rear lot line, and he wants to see 
if he could stay in it while the renovation is going on. 
Although the Zoning By-law would require a minimum 
rear yard of three (3) metres for a permanent ARU, he 
can apply for a Building Permit to convert his garage 
into a temporary ARU. Mobile homes and recreational 
trailers are not permitted as ARUs, but are encouraged 
to locate within Mobile Home Parks (MHP) zones. 
What approvals will my ARU need? 
The Town is exploring a suitable approval process for 
ARUs. Diferent properties and building types may 
have diferent submission requirements and fees. At a 
minimum, you will need to apply for a Building Permit to 
establish your ARU, ARU, which will include a site 
plan drawing and a foor plan drawing. See our guide on 
Applying for an ARU. 
Depending on the location of the ARU, a Lot Grading 
Plan may be required to ensure the Town’s engineering 
standards are being met. The purpose of a Lot Grading 
plan is to confrm drainage is directed away from the 
building and to ensure the project does not cause 
drainage issues or damage to neighbouring properties. 
Stormwater management features such as swales, 
slopes, or infltration galleries may need to be installed 
as a condition of approval. Determination of the 
requirement for a Lot Grading Plan will take place at 
the time of application for the Building Permit. 
13 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Will ARUs afect my property taxes? 
Yes, your property taxes will increase. Property taxes 
depend on the assessed value of the property, which 
is calculated by the Municipal Property Assessment 
Corporation (MPAC) from the location, age of buildings, 
gross foor area, the quality of construction, etc. 
MPAC conducts a reassessment every four (4) years, 
where any alteration to the property can afect the 
assessment value. A Building Permit application will 
also trigger an automatic reassessment from MPAC. The 
amount of increase will depend on the change in the 
number of secondary structures, change in the number 
of bathrooms, any materials used in the renovation, etc. 
Visit MPAC for more information. Note that property 
taxes do not depend on the number of residents or 
tenants on the property. 
Does my ARU need a separate address? 
Yes, a unit number (ex. Unit 2 - 123 Mitchell Lane) will be 
assigned to the ARU through our online building permit 
system when you apply for your building permit. It will 
be assigned a secondary address to the property to 
ensure the safety of the peopleresiding in both units. 
14 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
Common 
Considerations 
Residents 
Who do you plan to host in your Additional 
Residential Unit (ARU)? Would it be for your 
grandmother to move in with the family or for a friend 
to rent in the  hort term? Consider the privacy and 
accessibility of each resident as you plan out the 
individual and shared aspects of space, servicing, and 
parking. Making your design fexible can also give you 
more options as circumstances change. 
Space 
Be sure to design your ARU with a suitable amount of 
indoor and outdoor space. The minimum dimensions 
for indoor spaces are listed below. Note that for an 
ARU in an accessory building, its minimum indoor 
space is 17.5 m2 (188 ft2). ). See the Town Guide 
to Constructing an ARU for size requirements on 
rooms, windows, and doors. More information can be 
found in the Ontario Building Code, Add a Second 
Unit to Your House and Build or Buy a Tiny Home. 
15 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
Common 
Considerationsons 
Table 1. General minimum sizes for rooms and spaces. 
Space 
Minimum Floor Area 
Combined sleeping, living and dining and kitchen areas
 in a one-bedroom unit. 
13.5 m2 (145 ft2). 
Living Area 
13.5 m² (145 ft²) 
Dining area 
7 m2 (75 ft2) 
Kitchen 
4.2 m2 (45.2 ft2) 
Bathroom 
3.0 m2 (32 ft2), must be sufcient for sink, toilet, and   
 shower stall or bath 
Master bedroom 
9.8 m2 (95 ft2) 
Other bedrooms 
7 m2 (75 ft2) 
Properties with ARUs have the same green space requirements as properties without ARUs. However, homeowners can 
choose to maintain a higher percentage of open space or increase the amount of vegetation, to ensure each resident has 
enough access to greenery and space for outdoor activities. For ARUs detached from the main building, homeowners 
can also consider providing dedicated outdoor space for the ARU. 
16 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Servicing 
You will likely service your ARU by connecting to the 
water and wastewater infrastructure of your house. 
Consult a qualifed professional to see whether the 
existing infrastructure is sufcient or an upgrade is 
required to accommodate the increase in servicing 
needs. 
For billing purposes, the Town will have one (1) meter 
per property, and the owner is responsible for all bill 
payments of their property. However, homeowners can 
install private meters to keep track of the utility usage 
from individual units. ARUs may increase the charges 
incurred for water and wastewater connections. More 
details on current rates and billing guidelines can be 
found on our website. 
For further questions, reach out to Town staf and the 
following utility providers. 
• Water & Wastewater – Town of Saugeen Shores – 
Paying Your Bill 
Westario Power. 
• Electricity – Any property within the boundaries of the 
   former towns of Port Elgin and Southampton is 
serviced by 
Any property outside 
   those boundaries (in the former Saugeen Township) is 
   serviced by Hydro One. 
• Natural gas – Enbridge Gas 
• Telephone, cable, and internet – Bruce Telecom, 
Eastlink, Bell 
Safety 
For ARUs within the main house, you will need to add 
a 30-minute fre separation, or a 15-minute separation 
if the entire house has interconnected smoke alarms, 
between each unit and between each unit and the 
common areas. ARUs outside the main house must have 
their own emergency access and exits. 
Smoke alarms must also be installed on every level, 
in each bedroom, outside of sleeping areas, and in 
common areas. In addition, carbon monoxide alarms 
must be installed near sleeping areas and in the room 
containing the furnace. 
See the Town Guide to Constructing an ARU for size 
requirements on rooms, windows, and doors. More 
information can be found in the Ontario Building Code, 
Add a Second Unit to Your House and Build or Buy a 
Tiny Home. 
17 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parking 
Homeowners are required to provide one (1) dedicated 
parking space per ARU. Plan the spaces to minimize 
inconveniences between you, the intended residents 
of your ARU, and potential visitors. Please note that 
overnight parking on a Town street or Town parking lot 
is not permitted between November 1 and March 31 for 
snow removal. 
Tandem parking is single fle parking, where the cars 
further from the street need the cars in front to be 
moved before they can exit. Although tandem parking 
is permitted, think carefully about whether it will work 
for your situation. For example, an older couple may 
choose to provide one tandem parking space in front of 
their two-door garage, as they usually only use one car. 
However, if either the older couple or their tenant gets a 
lot of visitors, they might have problems accessing the 
car when they wish. 
Best Practices 
Consider the following best practices when designing 
Additional Residential Units (ARUs) for your home. 
Accessible & Universal Design 
Keep the accessibility needs of your residents and 
visitors in mind. If you are not sure who will be staying in 
your ARU, consider adopting a universal design which is 
accessible and appeals to both those with or without 
disabilities. A well-designed accessible unit looks like a 
standard unit, but adapts to changes in personal needs 
without costly renovations. For example, ensure that 
people with mobility challenges can access the ARU by 
using wheelchair-friendly ramps and asphalt or concrete 
pathways. 
Check out CMHC’s tips on universal design and details 
guides on accessible design for the kitchen, bathroom, 
and appliances to learn more. 
Additional Safety 
Consider installing interconnected smoke alarms in 
storage areas. Fires that start in these areas can be the 
most deadly, as they often have abundant fammable 
materials and are in remote areas of the house, so they 
can burn unnoticed for longer. 
18 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
 
 
 
Privacy 
Consider various audio and visual bufers to protect the 
privacy of each resident. Although a wall built to the 
Building Code’s fre separation requirements will help to 
reduce noise between units, it is still a good idea to 
install extra soundproofng in the walls, foors and 
ceilings that divide the ARU from the main unit. Be 
mindful of where you place windows and doors, try to 
ofset them from the main unit and point them away 
from neighbouring properties whenever possible. Install 
privacy fences or tall vegetated bufers along the 
backyard to enhance privacy for both the ARU residents 
and the neighbours. 
Compatible Style 
Build the ARU with similar fnishes, shape, height and 
width to either your home, neighbouring homes, or 
nearby accessory structures. 
Dark Sky Lighting Design 
Point outdoor lights towards the ground to reduce light 
pollution and disturbance to neighbours. 
Stormwater Management 
Apply Low Impact Development (LID) concepts, which 
aim to manage stormwater sustainably. This can include 
installing pervious pavement or vegetated swales and 
bufers to flter runof and recharge groundwater. Gentle 
grading towards the front or back of the lot also allows 
for efcient drainage, while slowing the speed of runof. 
Vegetation 
Preserve existing vegetation whenever possible, 
especially mature trees. Aim to utilize native vegetation 
in privacy or stormwater management features, such 
as a drought-tolerant, evergreen hedge to screen the 
backyard. 
Plan for the Future 
Keep in mind any plans when designing and placing 
your ARU. For example, reserving servicing capacity 
for a future workshop or reserving lot coverage and 
landscape open space for a potential severance. 
Planned future work can also be performed together for 
efciency, such as installing the electrical for an electric 
vehicle charging station with service upgrades. 
19 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
Checklist 
Here is a checklist summarizing the important things to review when creating an ARU. 
Town Zoning By-law Requirements 
Section 3.38 Additional Residential Units (refer to By-law 57-2022 for recent changes) 
Section 5.4.4 Additional Residential Units for agricultural zones (refer to By-law 57-2022 for recent changes) 
Specifc requirements for residential zones 
Residential First Density (R1): Section 7 
Residential First Density (R2): Section 8 
Residential First Density (R3): Section 9 
Residential First Density (R4): Section 10 
Ofce Residential (OR): Section 15 
What zone am I in? 
Visit Bruce County Maps 
Click on “I want to…” -> “Find Property Parcel by…” -> “Civic Address” and enter your address. 
Click on “Layers” -> “Land Use Planning” -> “Zoning” to make sure it is turned on, then click on your 
property again to view its zone. 
20 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
Ontario Building Code Requirements
 Location of your ARU 
Age of your house 
Room sizes 
Ceiling heights 
Windows and doors 
Plumbing 
Heating and ventilation 
Electricals and lighting 
Fire safety: exits, fre separation, smoke alarms, carbon monoxide alarms, etc. 
Town Guide to Constructing and Applying for an Additional Residential Unit (ARU) 
Accessing the Online Building Permit System - Cloudpermit 
Booking a Building Inspection 
21 
Saugeen Shores Additional Residential Units Guide
 
Additional Residential Units Guide 
Best Practices for Adding More 
www.saugeenshores.ca 
Units to Your Home. 
22 
