  
 
Committee Report 
To: Councillor Steve Hammell, Chair and 
 
Members of the Planning and Development Committee 
 
From:  Mark Paoli 
Director of Planning and Development 
 
 
Date: April 7, 2022  
 
 
Re: Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-003 (Walker Hill Development Inc.)  
Staff Recommendation: 
That Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-003 (Walker Hill Development Inc.) be approved 
subject to the Conditions of Draft Approval attached; and 
  
That the Secretary-Treasurer of the Land Division Committee be authorized to sign the 
Decision Sheet and the Draft Plan. 
Summary: 
Walker Hill Development Inc. is proposing to develop a 6.61-hectare parcel of land in 
Walkerton into a residential subdivision consisting of 30 single detached dwelling lots; 1 
semi-detached dwelling block; 11 townhouse dwelling blocks; 5 lot enlargements of 
neighbouring properties; 1 block for stormwater management/walkway purposes; 1 
additional block for walkway purposes; and an internal loop road with a connection to Old 
Durham Road to the south.  At least eighty (80) new residential units are proposed. 
Alignment with Guiding Principles: 
 
GOOD GROWTH 
To put growth in the 
right locations with the 
right services 
 
AGRICULTURE 
To support our key economies, 
including supporting a thriving 
agriculture community 
 
CONNECTING 
To improve our ability to move 
people, goods, and information 
between communities 
 
HOMES 
To increase the supply  
and mix of homes 
 
BUSINESS 
To create opportunities for a 
diversity of businesses, jobs, 
and employers 
 
COMMUNITIES 
To create wellbeing through access 
to healthy complete communities 
 
HERITAGE 
To identify and manage 
our cultural heritage 
resources 
 
NATURAL LEGACY 
To manage natural resources 
wisely for future generations  
 
Not applicable 
Not aligned 
Aligned 
Strongly aligned 
 
 
The subject lands are located on the northeast side of Walkerton and designated 
Residential. This is a logical infill project in the Settlement Area that makes efficient use of 
land and infrastructure. Therefore, the plan is aligned with the Good Growth guiding 
principle. 
 
The proposed development would increase the supply and mix of homes in this area of Bruce 
County by providing 30 single detached dwelling lots, 2 semi-detached dwelling units and 48 
townhouse dwelling units. This is strongly aligned with the Homes guiding principle.  
 
Given new municipal streets and walkways will be constructed, with connections to existing 
municipal roadways, a park and other recreational facilities, adjacent business park lands 
and the nearby downtown core, the subdivision is aligned with the Communities guiding 
principle. 
 
The proposal is also aligned with both the Heritage and Natural Legacy guiding principles as 
potential concerns about archaeological resources and natural heritage features/functions 
are or will be addressed through supporting studies requested through conditions of draft 
plan approval.   
 
On balance, this proposal is aligned with the Guiding Principles and the Vision of a healthy, 
diverse and thriving future.   
Airphoto 
 
 
 
Draft Plan 
 
*For Representation Only – Full Draft Plan attached separately 
Planning Analysis: 
The following section provides an overview of the planning considerations that were 
factored into the staff recommendation for this application, including relevant agency 
comments (attached), public comments (attached) and planning policy sections.  
Efficient Use of Land and Infrastructure 
Directing new development and intensification to Settlement Areas helps to ensure the wise 
use of land and resources, efficient development patterns, protects resources (e.g., natural 
and agricultural), ensures effective use of infrastructure and public facilities, and minimizes 
unnecessary public expenditures. 
 
The subject property is located on the east side of Walkerton within the Settlement Area. 
The lands are designated Primary Urban Communities in the Bruce County Official Plan and 
Residential in the Walkerton Community Official Plan.  The goals and objectives of both the 
County and local Official Plans direct much of the future growth to Primary Urban 
Communities, such as Walkerton, to support the wise use of land and resources.  
 
Density targets are a tool to achieve the efficient use of land and infrastructure within the 
Settlement Area boundary.  The Bruce County Official Plan and the local Official Plan 
require the residential portion of all multi-unit developments that will be serviced with 
municipal sewer and water to achieve a density of 15 units per gross developable hectare. 
For the subject proposal, a density of 12.1 units per gross developable hectare is proposed.  
The density proposed is less than the Official Plan target due to the irregular shape and 
sloping topography of the west side of the site.  The applicant identified that this makes the 
use of those lands problematic for higher density development.  As a result, larger lots are 
proposed in this location to address the grading and lot configuration challenges.   
 
The Walkerton Official Plan also identifies a maximum density of 35 units per net hectare for 
medium density residential proposals.  ‘Net density’ is defined as the density of the 
residential development on the site, not including roads, parks and schools (this differs from 
the ‘gross density’ calculation under the County Official Plan noted above, which excludes 
natural hazards and other similar environmental lands).  The medium density component of 
the proposed development is 30.1 units per net hectare, which is below the maximum 
identified in the local Official Plan.   
 
The proposed residential units will be accessed by an internal loop road to be built to 
municipal standards with an intersection at Old Durham Road, east of Walker Street.  The 
development will use and expand upon the existing municipal street network.   
 
Similarly, the lands will be connected to existing municipal water and sewer services 
through extension of these services to the site.  Full municipal water and sewage services 
are the preferred form of servicing in Walkerton.  This makes it the appropriate location for 
a new development such as the one proposed.  
 
Some of the neighbouring landowners have expressed a concern with the density of the 
development proposed.  As noted above, density and intensification ensure the efficient use 
of land and infrastructure which is achieved on this site, while generally meeting the 
minimum and maximum density targets set by the County and Municipality.   
 
Land Use Compatibility 
Compatibility of the proposed development with adjacent lands has also been identified by 
neighbouring landowners as a concern.   
 
The subject lands are designated Residential in the Walkerton Community Official Plan and 
were previously zoned Planned Development (PD) in the Municipality’s Zoning By-law.  The 
Municipality passed a Zoning By-law Amendment (File Z-2021-006) on January 25, 2022 to 
rezone the lands to Residential: Low Density Single (R1) and Residential: Low Density 
Multiple (R2) to conform with the Residential designation in the Official Plan.  Special 
provisions were included on some of the lots and blocks relating to maximum lot coverage 
and yard setbacks. 
 
The surrounding lands to the west, south and southeast are zoned for Urban Open Space 
(OS), Residential: Medium Density (R3) and Residential: Low Density Single (R1) uses.  These 
neighbouring lands consist of a municipal park, a multi-unit residential development and 
single-family homes.  The proposed development, including the single-family, semi-detached 
and street townhouse formats, are compatible with these surrounding uses.  The applicant 
has also focused the medium density townhouses toward the centre of the site and is 
proposing rear/side yard additions (Blocks 45 to 49 inclusive) to 5 of the existing single-
family residential properties on Old Durham Road to act as an additional amenity 
area/buffer between these existing residences and the proposed townhouses.   
 
The lands to the north and northeast of the site are zoned for Business Park uses.  The 
Business Park 1 (BP1) zone permits retail commercial, business park commercial, light 
industrial and other complimentary uses.  Permitted uses in the Business Park 2 (BP2) zone 
include heavy manufacturing and industrial uses.  With the exception of some existing solar 
panels, much of the adjacent Business Park lands are currently vacant.  
 
It should be noted that the lands to the immediate north, while zoned Business Park 2 (BP2), 
are designated Institutional in the local Official Plan.  Talks between County and Municipal 
staff and the new owner of that parcel are currently underway relating to the development 
of the site.  However, these discussions are preliminary and subject to future decision-
making under the Planning Act.  The current permitted uses as of right include heavy 
manufacturing and industrial uses.   
 
The Business Park 1 (BP1) and Business Park 2 (BP2) zones include yard regulations that 
specifically apply when abutting a residential zone or use to address compatibility issues 
such as noise.  The existing industrial buildings in the surrounding area are over 120m away 
from the proposed development and conform to the Zoning By-law provisions relating to 
buffers between industrial and residential uses/zones.  These provisions require either a 
20m or 70m buffer to a principle industrial use building depending on the class of industry 
occupying the building.  New industrial uses in the area would need to comply with the 
buffers noted above and would also need to satisfy the yard setback requirements outlined 
in the Zoning By-law.  The applicant has demonstrated that the proposed residential 
development is compatible and will not preclude future business owners from siting new 
buildings or otherwise using their lots for their intended business park purposes on the 
neighbouring lands.   
 
Range and Mix of Housing Types 
The proposed development provides a range and mix of housing types and lot sizes to meet 
the projected requirements of current and future residents.  The lot sizes meet or exceed 
the minimum requirements set out in the Zoning By-law.  The proposal also meets the 
County and Municipal target requiring 30% of proposed dwelling units to be medium density 
or higher.  In this case, the medium density component of the subject development 
represents 60% of the dwelling units proposed.   
 
Affordability 
The affordability policies of the County Official Plan are intended to provide overall 
direction for growth and development, and guidance to local Official Plans. These policies 
include that housing should be affordable to residents of the County, with 30% of new 
residential development and residential intensification affordable to family incomes up to 
the 60th percentile, and that local plans should require 30% of new development to be 
available as rental housing.  This is a target for all of development in Bruce County and is 
not expected to be met through every site-specific development.   
 
Similarly, the Walkerton Community Official Plan also sets a target of 30% of new housing to 
be provided as affordable housing.  As with the County Plan target, this is for all 
development and is not expected to be met through every site-specific development. 
 
Aside from opportunities to incentivize affordable development, the implementation policies 
of the County Official Plan and Walkerton Official Plan targets regarding affordability do not 
apply specifically to individual proposals. The County Official Plan supports affordability by 
applying minimum densities and requiring a medium or high-density component for serviced 
projects with more than 10 units.  The applicant has indicated that they are meeting the 
affordability targets through the provision of 48 medium density townhouse units “which will 
help to keep the dwellings affordable to those with medium to lower income levels, 
including first time home buyers and seniors.”  The townhouses will be developed and sold in 
a freehold format.   
 
Aside from constructing an apartment building, the medium density component of the 
proposed development is among the most affordable market-based development types that 
could be achieved for this site.  The townhouse building form has lower material, 
development, and land costs, while remaining consistent with the building scale for the 
area. 
 
Opportunities also exist on the site for the creation of additional residential units, which are 
permitted within single detached dwellings, semi-detached dwellings and street fronting 
townhouse dwellings subject to specific provisions in the Zoning By-law.  Secondary suites 
can be used for rental purposes or extended family to assist with household costs. 
 
Sewer and Water Services 
As noted earlier, full municipal water and sewage services are the preferred form of 
servicing in the Municipality.  A Functional Servicing Report has been prepared on behalf of 
the applicant which speaks to the proposed services.   
 
The report establishes that sanitary servicing will be provided by connecting to the existing 
municipal sewer on Old Durham Road via easements over Lots 5 and 30.  A new sanitary 
sewer will be installed along the new public streets, which will be assumed by the 
municipality.  The report concludes that there is sufficient capacity available to 
accommodate the proposed development.   
 
The report also identifies that water servicing can be provided by creating a looped system  
in the subdivision which connects to the existing municipal watermains on Old Durham Road 
and Eastridge Road via Block 44.  The watermains will also be assumed by the Municipality 
and there is sufficient water capacity available.   
 
Comments provided by Brockton staff on the water and sewer servicing strategy have been 
addressed, which included confirmation among other things that a servicing easement will 
be required over Lots 5 and 30 and that Blocks 43 and 44 are sufficiently sized.  The 
applicant will also be required to prepare detailed servicing plans to the satisfaction of the 
Municipality as a condition of draft plan approval.  
 
 
Stormwater Management  
In order to control flooding, ponding, erosion and sedimentation, and to provide protection 
of water resources and natural habitat dependent upon watercourses and other water bodies 
for their existence, the County and local Official Plans require that stormwater management 
strategies be provided for new development in Settlement Areas.  
 
The Functional Servicing Report and Stormwater Management Report submitted in support of 
the subject applications indicates that most of the stormwater from the development will be 
directed to an existing stormwater management facility in the municipal park to the west 
through Block 43.  This is an efficient use of existing municipal infrastructure and avoids 
additional maintenance costs associated with a new stormwater management facility.  The 
existing ‘dry’ stormwater management facility will be enlarged to accommodate the 
proposed development and designed by a professional engineer to Provincial and Municipal 
standards. 
 
Municipal storm sewers will be installed along the proposed streets to collect stormwater 
from minor storm events, which will be directed to the stormwater management facility.  
Major design storms will be conveyed overland and on road surfaces and will also be directed 
to the stormwater management facility or to the Old Durham Road allowance.  There will 
also be a connection to the existing storm sewer along Old Durham Road to accommodate 
the proposed southern lots and blocks.  Easements will be required in some areas for 
stormwater servicing purposes.   
 
Brockton staff initially provided several comments relating to stormwater management that 
have been addressed by the applicant, such as the sizing of Block 43 and the provision of 
easements for stormwater servicing purposes.  Other matters, such as the accommodation of 
external drainage entering the site, will be addressed through the preparation of a detailed 
engineering submission to satisfy the conditions of draft plan approval.  
 
Roadways and Access 
Two new internal roads will be constructed on the site to service the development, Walker 
Hill Crescent and Harmony Drive, which will connect to the existing municipal road network 
at Old Durham Road.  Old Durham Road connects to Bruce Road 4 to the south via Walker 
Street and Ontario Road.  Bruce Road 4 is a direct link to downtown Walkerton to the west 
and Hanover further to the east.  The new internal roads will be constructed to full 
Municipal standards by the applicant and ultimately assumed by the Municipality.   
 
Neighbouring landowners have expressed concern with the location of the proposed 
intersection at Old Durham Road for safety reasons. During the pre-consultation process, the 
preferred entrance point to the subdivision was at Walker Street. The entrance was 
relocated to the east due to grading constraints on the western portion of the site. The 
applicant indicated in their formal submission that having the entrance at the Walker Street 
intersection would require sections of the internal subdivision road and adjacent driveways 
to exceed the maximum slope requirements permitted by the Municipality. Relocation of the 
entrance to the east allowed the slope of the road and the adjacent driveways to stay within 
maximum allowable limits while still maintaining the overall drainage patterns of the site. 
 
To address continued concerns from the public relating to safety, the applicant retained a 
traffic consultant to undertake an access location review. The consultant recommended that 
the proposed entrance onto Old Durham Road be shifted further to the west to meet sight 
distance requirements as outlined in the Transportation Association of Canada Geometric 
Design Guide for Canadian Roads. The new entrance is shown on the current Draft Plan. 
 
An option for a second or alternative access to Eastridge Road to the north was also 
considered by the Municipality, applicant and consulting team but was determined not to be 
feasible due to the grades in the area which would exceed Municipal standards. The intent 
of the proposed access to Old Durham Road is also to more efficiently direct traffic to Bruce 
Road 4 and the downtown core as opposed to routing through the adjacent business park 
lands. 
 
Concerns were also expressed by the public regarding the amount of private vehicle and 
construction traffic that would be added to Old Durham Road, which has a current speed 
limit of 40km/hour and no sidewalks. Municipal staff have advised that it will pursue design 
and construction drawings for sidewalks along Old Durham Road to minimize pedestrian 
traffic concerns in this area for approval by Council in association with the subject 
development. Provision of sidewalks in this area has been on the list of intended Municipal 
projects. It is also noted that construction and private vehicle traffic needs to abide by the 
posted speed limit and other Municipal requirements relating to parking, noise, winter road 
maintenance, etc.  
 
Pedestrian Access and Greenspace 
Complete communities support access to greenspace and opportunities for pedestrian 
movement.  For this project, Municipal staff have advised that payment-in-lieu of parkland 
dedication is acceptable given the proximity of the site to the existing municipal park to the 
west and the soccer fields to the north.  
 
Access to the soccer fields from the proposed subdivision will be provided via Block 44 and a 
walkway block on the private lands to the north.  Access to the municipal park to the west 
will be provided via a recreational trail on Block 43.  Block 43 was modified to add the 
recreational trail based on feedback provided at the last Brockton Council meeting on the 
file. 
 
Sidewalks are also proposed throughout the subdivision as was requested by the Municipality 
and the Bluewater District School Board. 
 
Archaeology 
The County and local Official Plans identify that development on lands containing possible 
archaeological resources or areas of archaeological potential, should occur in such a manner 
as to avoid destruction or alteration of these resources.  Where this is not possible, the 
development proponent shall conserve the resources through removal and documentation in 
accordance with the Ontario Heritage Act.  Where an area of archaeological potential is 
identified, the requirement for an archaeological assessment can be identified as a 
component of a complete application or included as one of the conditions for development 
approval to ensure the proponent meets their legal obligations under the Act. 
The Saugeen Ojibway Nation (SON) has advised that the Saugeen River, a major Indigenous 
and Euro-Canadian transportation route and food source, is located in proximity to the 
property and includes a major slope to the river.  This elevated area is also considered to be 
a desirable location for Indigenous and early Euro-Canadian presence. For this reason, SON 
has requested that the applicant prepare an archeological assessment for this site.  A 
condition of draft plan approval has been included to address this request.   
 
Natural Heritage 
The natural heritage features identified as potentially affecting the subject property 
included significant wildlife habitat and the habitat of endangered and threatened species.  
The Bruce County Official Plan and Walkerton Community Official Plan generally prohibit 
development within the natural heritage features and their adjacent lands unless it has been 
demonstrated that there will be no negative impacts to the natural features or their 
ecological functions.   
 
An Endangered Species Act Status report was prepared to demonstrate consistency with the 
natural heritage policies of the County and Municipality.  The report found potential 
Bobolink and Meadowlark habitat within the development area.  The applicant opted to 
address the habitat potential as though it had been confirmed for protected species.  The 
applicant entered into an agreement to create 7 hectares of compensation habitat for these 
species on a property near Creemore, Ontario.  The report also identified a potential bat 
maternity roosting site on an adjacent property that will not be impacted by the proposed 
development.   
 
The report was generally found to be acceptable to Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority 
(SVCA) staff, who provide natural heritage review comments on behalf of the County.  SVCA 
staff recommended that the Ministry of Environment Conservation and Parks (MECP) provide 
confirmation that the endangered and threatened species policies and compensation have 
been satisfactorily addressed.  A condition of draft plan approval has been included 
requesting the applicant to provide written confirmation to the satisfaction of the County in 
consultation with MECP. 
Financial/Staffing/Legal/IT Considerations: 
Potential Appeal to the Ontario Land Tribunal. 
 
Report Author: 
Coreena Smith 
Senior Development Planner 
 
Departmental Approval: 
Mark Paoli 
Director, Planning and Development 
 
Approved for Submission: 
Christine MacDonald 
Acting Chief Administrative Officer 
 
Appendices 
 County Official Plan Map 
 Local Official Plan Map 
 Local Zoning Map 
 List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Agency Comments  
 Public Comments  
 Public Notice 
 Public Notice of Additional Public Consultation 
 Municipality of Brockton Resolution 
 Municipality of Brockton Meeting Minutes 
 Decision Sheet  
 Conditions of Draft Approval 
 Draft Plan of Subdivision 
 
 
County Official Plan Map (Designated Primary Urban Communities) 
 
Local Official Plan Map (Designated Residential) 
 
Local Zoning Map (Zoned R1-Residential: Low Density Single, R1-4-Residential: Low 
Density Single Special, R1-18-Residential: Low Density Single Special, R1-18-H-
Residential: Low Density Single Special with Holding and R2-9-H-Residential: Low Density 
Multiple Special with Holding) 
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
Original submission: 
 Subdivision Application Form;  
 Draft Plan of Subdivision;  
 Easement Instruments;  
 Planning Report;  
 Correspondence referred to in the Planning Report;  
 Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment;  
 Geotechnical Investigation Report;  
 Slope Stability Rating Chart;  
 Preliminary Plans and Profiles;  
 Functional Servicing Report; 
 Stormwater Management Report; and 
 Endangered Species Act Status Report. 
Second submission: 
 Cover Letter; 
 Addendum to Planning Report; 
 Revised Draft Plan of Subdivision; and 
 Access Location Review. 
Third submission: 
 Revised Engineering Plan; 
 Revised Draft Plan of Subdivision. 
 
