 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
      
 
Subject:
FW: Walker Hill Comments
From: Fiona Hamilton <fhamilton@brockton.ca>  
Sent: Wednesday, December 1, 2021 4:01 PM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Walker Hill Comments 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Municipal staff and engineers have been in consultation with the Developer related to concerns expressed by the 
community related to traffic in this area.  
Based on the results of a Traffic Study that was completed the entrance to the subdivision has been moved to the 
West.  An 8 meter block has been secured from the adjacent landowner to the North for a walkway access to the Soccer 
field area. A road access was examined from Walker Hill subdivision to East Ridge and was not advisable by engineers 
due to the steep slopes and topography in this area. The Municipality will pursue design and construction drawings for 
sidewalks along Old Durham Road to minimize pedestrian traffic concerns in this area for approval by Council in relation 
to the advancement of construction of this subdivision.  
Fiona 
Fiona Hamilton 
Clerk 
Phone: 519‐881‐2223 Ext. 124 
Email: fhamilton@brockton.ca 
Municipality of Brockton 
100 Scott Street, P.O. Box 68, 
Walkerton, ON N0G 2V0 
Toll‐Free: 1‐877‐885‐8084 
Fax: 519‐881‐2991 
Brockton.ca 
The Municipality of Brockton is taking extra precautions to protect the health and well‐being of our staff and 
residents during the COVID‐19 outbreak, while continuing to deliver essential services. The Municipal Office, 
1 
Agency Comments 
Municipality of Brockton 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--  
 
 
 
  
  
Brockton Child Care Centre, Brant, Greenock, and Hanover/Walkerton Landfills are open to the public with 
capacity restrictions. The Recreation Office at the Walkerton Community Centre and the Walkerton Fire Hall 
can be visited by appointment only. All outdoor amenities, recreation fields and parks are open to the public. 
Brockton staff are working diligently to serve the community and respond to the COVID‐19 outbreak. Updated 
information about the coronavirus is available on our website, at www.brockton.ca/COVID‐19. Please 
continue to practice social distancing, wear a mask and follow all health measures recommended by Health 
Canada, check in on your neighbours, and support local businesses where possible. Thank you for your 
understanding and cooperation. 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council should be aware that any 
personal information contained within their  
communications may become part of the public record and may be made available through the 
Council Agenda process. 
Confidentiality Note: 
This e-mail message and any attachments are intended only for the named recipient(s) 
above and may contain information that is privileged  
or confidential. If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender 
immediately and delete this e-mail message.  
Please consider the environment before printing 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that any personal 
information contained within their communications may become part of the public record and may be made available 
through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s website. 
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all copies (electronic or 
otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject:
FW: FW: REVISED Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc
From: Emily Martin <manager.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca>  
Sent: Tuesday, January 18, 2022 3:50 PM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Cc: William Fitzgerald <drdig_redux@wightman.ca>; Juanita Meekins <execassist.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca> 
Subject: Re: FW: REVISED Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Hi Coreena,  
Thanks for your patience upon review of the proposed Walker Hill location SON is going to have to insist that an 
archeological assessment be done. 
The property just falls outside of the Ministry`s arbitrary 300-metre criterion for requiring an archaeological 
assessment. The Saugeen River – a major Indigenous and Euro-Canadian transportation route and food 
source, is located 338 metres west of the property (which includes a major slope to the river). Being located on 
an elevated area close to the river should also be considered to be a desirable location for Indigenous and 
early Euro-Canadian presence. 
Archeology is the only area of concern identified by SON through consultation on this project. 
Please instruct the proponent to reach out to me when they have a plan for an arch study at that point SON 
can review the proposed methods to ensure they are satisfactory. 
Please let me know if you have any further questions. 
Best, 
Emily 
Emily Martin
Resources and Infrastructure Manager 
manager.ri@saugeenojibwaynation.ca 
T: (519) 379-0849 
25 Maadookii Subdivision 
Neyaashiinigmiing 
Ontario, N0H 2T0 
saugeenojibwaynation.ca
1 
 Saugeen Ojibway Nation 
 Municipality of Brockton 
From: 
Fiona Hamilton 
To: 
Candace Hamm; Coreena Smith 
Cc: 
Sonya Watson; dweltz; Greg Furtney 
Subject: 
Municipality of Brockton Comments - Walker Hill Subdivision Application 
Date: 
Monday, April 19, 2021 1:47:55 PM 
Attachments: 
image002.png 
image003.png 
image004.png 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Hello Candace and Coreena: 
The comments on behalf of the Municipality of Brockton in relation to the Walker Hill Subdivision 
Application are summarized below. If you have any questions or concerns, Coreena, please do not 
hesitate to contact me and we can arrange for a meeting if necessary. 
We have had a some very productive pre-consultation meetings with the Walker Hill Development 
Inc. group and Brockton looks forward to this development coming to fruition. The following 
comments relate to items that will require further discussion. Any further servicing and stormwater 
management details can be resolved during the Subdivision Agreement process. 
A Block is needed on Lot 30 and Lot 5 for storm and sanitary, which has been discussed with 
the Developer’s Engineer, who will prepare a proposal based on the depth and separation of 
the sewers. 
The Old Durham Road storm sewer needs further investigation as it may not turn down 
Walker Road. 
It is noted that there is a gas easement along the north side of Old Durham Road. There is a 
large Bell line in this area as well. 
Lot grading will be difficult on this highly sloped site. Grading and drainage must account for 
external drainage to the north and rear yard drainage will be needed along the south side. 
The SWM pond will be a “dry” pond. 
Calculations in the Final SWM report will be required to confirm that Block 44 is of sufficient 
width for the overland flow route for access for maintenance. Further this Block will serve as a 
suitable walking path to access Cunningham Park for pedestrian access and a surface 
treatment will be required. 
Block 46 will also be a pedestrian access and will also require a concrete sidewalk surface 
application 
As agreed upon in pre-consultation meetings no parkland area is included in this subdivision 
due to availability in close proximity. Cash in Lieu of Parkland will be required. 
Fees in accordance with the Consolidated Fees and Charges By-law in place at the time of 
Approval for Subdivision Development will be required. 
A 0.3 metre reserve will be required along the East side of Lot 4 and along the West side of 
Block 50. 
A 0.3 metre reserve will be required along the exterior sideyard for all corner lots. 
A means of controlling drainage from Lots 11-24 will be required to account for external run 
off that will flow to the new subdivision be discussed in preparation of the final SWMP plan. 
Due to the servicing and access required through Lot 5 and Lot 30 a block rather than an 
 
-- 
 
 
 
 
easement will be required. This may leave Block 5 as an unbuildable lot. 
Rear Yard Drainage for Lots 27-30 and Lots 31-34 will need further consideration but can be 
discussed in preparation of the final SWMP plan. 
Fiona 
Fiona Hamilton 
Clerk 
Phone: 519-881-2223 Ext. 124 
Email: fhamilton@brockton.ca 
Municipality of Brockton 
100 Scott Street, P.O. Box 68, 
Walkerton, ON N0G 2V0 
Toll-Free: 1-877-885-8084 
Fax: 519-881-2991 
Brockton.ca 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council should be 
aware that any personal information contained within their 
communications may become part of the public record and may be made available
through the Council Agenda process. 
Confidentiality Note:
This e-mail message and any attachments are intended only for the named
recipient(s) above and may contain information that is privileged 
or confidential. If you have received this message in error, please notify
the sender immediately and delete this e-mail message. 
Please consider the environment before printing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
1078 Bruce Road 12, P.O. Box 150, Formosa ON Canada N0G 1W0 
Tel 519-367-3040, Fax 519-367-3041, publicinfo@svca.on.ca, www.svca.on.ca 
SENT ELECTRONICALLY ONLY CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca and bcplwa@brucecounty.on.ca 
April 23, 2021 
County of Bruce Planning Department 
30 Park Street 
Walkerton, Ontario 
N0G 2V0 
ATTENTION: 
Coreena Smith, Planner 
Dear Ms. Smith, 
RE: 
Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-003; and Proposed Zoning By-law Amendment Z-2021-006 (Walker Hill 
Development Inc.) 
Unassigned civic address 
Roll No. 410436000101801; and 410434000206800 
Part of Lot 32 Concession 1, N.D.R Geographic Township of Brant; and Part of Park Lot 48, Registered 
Plan No. 162 Geographic Town of Walkerton 
Municipality of Brockton 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff has reviewed the above-noted applications as per our 
delegated responsibility from the Province to represent provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified 
in Section 3.1 of the Provincial Policy Statement (PPS, 2020) and as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation). SVCA staff has also provided comments as per our Memorandum of Agreement 
(MOA), dated September 2019, with the County of Bruce representing natural hazards, natural heritage, and 
water resources; and the application has also been reviewed through our role as a public body under the Planning 
Act as per our Conservation Authority Member approved Environmental Planning and Regulations Policies 
Manual, amended October 16, 2018. 
Purpose 
A Draft Plan of Subdivision application has been submitted to create a residential subdivision consisting of 
detached, semi-detached and townhouse dwelling units. A Zoning By-law Amendment application has also been 
submitted to facilitate the proposed development. 
The following documents were submitted with the applications: 
1.
Subdivision Application Form
2.
Draft Plan of Subdivision
3.
Easement Instruments
4.
Planning Report
5.
Correspondence referred to in the Planning Report
Watershed Member Municipalities 
Municipality of Arran-Elderslie, Municipality of Brockton, Township of Chatsworth, Municipality of Grey Highlands, 
Town of Hanover, Township of Howick, Municipality of Morris-Turnberry, Municipality of South Bruce, 
Township of Huron-Kinloss, Municipality of Kincardine, Town of Minto, Township of Wellington North, 
Town of Saugeen Shores, Township of Southgate, Municipality of West Grey 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development 
S-2021-003 and Z-2021-006 (Walker Hill Development Inc.) 
April 23, 2021 
Page 2 of 4 
6. Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment 
7. Geotechnical Investigation Report 
8. Slope Stability Rating Chart 
9. Preliminary Plans and Profiles 
10. Functional Servicing Report 
11. Stormwater Management Report. 
In accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), dated September 2019, with the County of Bruce 
the SVCA is not required to review stormwater management, geotechnical/slope reports, etc. or other technical 
reports when the property does not contain any natural hazard features, natural heritage features and/or when 
the outlet for stormwater management is beyond/outside of an SVCA Regulated Area. Therefore, SVCA staff has 
not reviewed above referenced reports/documents except for the planning report and the Phase 1 
Environmental Site Assessment (section 2.10.1-SVCA, and 2.10.2-MNRF). SVCA understand that the above 
referenced documents/ reports will be reviewed by the approval authority (County of Bruce and/or Municipality 
of Brockton). 
Furthermore, though not listed on the Bruce County website as a related report to the applications, Bruce County 
planning staff have requested SVCA to review the following report: Proposed residential sub-division by Walker 
Hill Development Inc. on Old Durham Road, Walkerton - Endangered Species Act Status, MTE File No.: 45259­
200, dated June 25, 2020 by MTE Consultants. 
Background 
According to SVCA files, SVCA staff provided preliminary details and email correspondence regarding the 
property(s) on two occasions to, 
1. Re/Max realtor Renate Sieber-Schlegel, dated November 12, 2019; and 
2. MTE regarding stormwater management criteria, dated October 18, 2019. 
Recommendation 
The proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision; and proposed Zoning By-law Amendment are generally acceptable to 
SVCA staff. However, SVCA staff recommend that the following recommendation be included in the conditions 
for draft plan approval: 
1. Confirmation with the Ministry of Environment Conservation and Parks (MECP) be received that 
endangered species and threatened species policy and compensation have been addressed. 
Delegated Responsibility and Advisory Comments 
SVCA staff has reviewed the applications through our delegated responsibility from the Province to represent 
provincial interests regarding natural hazards identified in Section 3.1 of the PPS, 2020. We have also reviewed 
the applications through our responsibilities as a service provider to the County of Bruce in that we provide 
expert advice and technical clearance on Planning Act applications with regards to natural hazards, natural 
heritage, and water resources as set out in the PPS, 2020, County Official Plan and/or local official plans. 
Comments below only include features/technical requirements affecting the property. 
Natural Hazards: 
The properties do not contain any natural hazard features of interest to the SVCA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development 
S-2021-003 and Z-2021-006 (Walker Hill Development Inc.) 
April 23, 2021 
Page 3 of 4 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 3.1 
Section 3.1.1 of the PPS 2020 states in part that development shall generally be directed to areas outside of: b) 
hazardous lands adjacent to river, stream and small inland lake systems which are impacted by flooding and 
erosion hazards; and c) hazardous sites. The properties do not contain any natural hazards as defined in the PPS 
2020. It is the opinion of SVCA staff that the applications are in consistent with the PPS 2020. 
County of Bruce OP and Municipality of Brockton OP Policies 
Section 5.8 of the County of Bruce OP and the Section 3.7 of the Community of Walkerton OP generally direct 
development to be located outside of Hazardous Land and Environmental Protection areas. It is the opinion of 
SVCA staff that the applications appear to be consistent with the policies of the Bruce County OP; and the 
Municipality of Brockton OP. 
Natural Heritage: 
As part of SVCA staff’s desktop review the following significant natural heritage features were identified as 
potentially affecting the property: significant wildlife habitat, and habitat of endangered species and threatened 
species. 
Provincial Policy Statement – Section 2.1 
Section 2.1 of the PPS 2020 states in part that development shall not be permitted in significant wildlife habitat, 
and habitat of endangered species and threatened species, and the adjacent lands to the above referenced 
features except in accordance with policies found in section 2.1. 
County of Bruce OP and Municipality of South Bruce OP Policies 
Section 4.3 of the Bruce County OP and Section 5.12 of the Municipality of South Bruce OP generally prohibit 
development within the natural heritage features and their adjacent lands, as stated above, unless it has been 
demonstrated through an acceptable EIS that there will be no negative impacts to the natural features or their 
ecological functions. 
As mentioned above, the following report titled: Proposed residential sub-division by Walker Hill Development 
Inc. on Old Durham Road, Walkerton - Endangered Species Act Status, MTE File No.: 45259-200, dated June 25, 
2020 by MTE Consultants has been reviewed by SVCA staff. The report is generally acceptable to SVCA staff. 
However, SVCA staff recommend that confirmation with the Ministry of Environment Conservation and Parks 
(MECP) be received that endangered species and threatened species policy and compensation have been 
addressed. 
Statutory Comments 
SVCA staff has reviewed the applications as per our responsibilities as a regulatory authority under Ontario 
Regulation 169/06 (SVCA’s Development, Interference with Wetlands, and Alterations to Shorelines and 
Watercourses Regulation). This regulation, made under Section 28 of the Conservation Authorities Act, enables 
SVCA to regulate development in or adjacent to river or stream valleys, Great Lakes and inland lake shorelines, 
watercourses, hazardous lands and wetlands. Subject to the CA Act, development taking place on or adjacent 
to these lands may require permission from SVCA to confirm that the control of flooding, erosion, dynamic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
County of Bruce Planning and Development 
S-2021-003 and Z-2021-006 (Walker Hill Development Inc.) 
April 23, 2021 
Page 4 of 4 
beaches, pollution or the conservation of land are not affected. SVCA also regulates the alteration to or 
interference in any way with a watercourse or wetland. 
The subject properties are not within the SVCA Approximate Regulated Area/Approximate Screening Area 
associated with Ontario Regulation 169/06. As such, development and/or site alteration on the properties does 
not require permission (permit) from SVCA. 
Summary 
SVCA staff has reviewed these applications in accordance with our MOA with the County of Bruce, and as per 
our mandated responsibilities for natural hazard management, including our regulatory role under the 
Conservation Authorities Act. 
The proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision; and proposed Zoning By-law Amendment are generally acceptable to 
SVCA staff. 
Given the above comments, and subject to the above-mentioned recommendations, it is the opinion of the SVCA 
staff that: 
1) Consistency with Section 3.1, Natural Hazard policies of the PPS, 2020 has been demonstrated. 
2) Consistency with Section 2.1, Natural Heritage policies of the PPS, 2020 has been demonstrated, with 
the exception of endangered species and threatened species policies, which the applicant must address 
directly with the MECP. 
3) Consistency with local planning policies for natural hazards and natural heritage has been demonstrated, 
with the exception of endangered species and threatened species policies, which the applicant must 
address directly with the MECP. 
Recommended Condition for Draft Approval 
1. Confirmation with the Ministry of Environment Conservation and Parks (MECP) be received that 
endangered species and threatened species policy and compensation have been addressed. 
Please inform this office of any decision made by the Municipality of Brockton and/or the County of Bruce with 
regard to these applications. We respectfully request to receive a copy of the decisions and notices of any appeals 
filed. Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
Sincerely, 
Michael Oberle 
Environmental Planning Technician 
Saugeen Conservation 
MO/ 
cc: 
Fiona Hamilton, Clerk, Municipality of Brockton (via email) 
Dan Gieruszak, Authority Member, SVCA (via email) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Union Gas 
Candace Hamm 
Subject: 
FW: Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc 
From: ONTUGLLandsINQ <ONTUGLLandsINQ@enbridge.com>  
Sent: Wednesday, March 24, 2021 1:22 PM 
To: Candace Hamm <CHamm@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: RE: Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Thank you for your correspondence with regards to draft plan of approval for the above noted project. 
It is Enbridge Gas Inc.’s (operating as Union Gas) request that as a condition of final approval that the owner/developer 
provide to Union the necessary easements and/or agreements required by Union for the provision of gas services for 
this project, in a form satisfactory to Enbridge. 
Should you require any further information, please contact the undersigned. 
Barbara M.J. Baranow 
Analyst Land Support 
Enbridge Gas Inc. 
50 Keil Drive North, Chatham, ON N7M 5M1 
Integrity. Safety. Respect. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 25, 2021 
Candace Hamm 
Applications Technician 
Planning and Development 
Corporation of the County of Bruce 
Reference: S-2021-003 Walker Hill 
Dear Candace, 
Thank you for contacting Canada Post regarding plans for a new development in 
the City of Walkerton. Please see Canada Post’s feedback regarding the proposal, 
below. 
Service type and location 
1. Canada Post will provide mail delivery service to the development through 
centralized Community Mail Boxes (CMBs). 
2. If the development includes plans for (a) multi-unit building(s) with a 
common indoor entrance, the developer must supply, install and maintain 
the mail delivery equipment within these buildings to Canada Post’s 
specifications. 
Municipal requirements 
1. Please update our office if the project description changes so that we may 
determine the impact (if any). 
2. Should this development application be approved, please provide 
notification of the new civic addresses as soon as possible. 
Developer timeline and installation 
1. Please provide Canada Post with the excavation date for the first 
foundation/first phase as well as the date development work is scheduled to 
begin. Finally, please provide the expected installation date(s) for the 
CMB(s). 
Please see Appendix A for any additional requirements for this developer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
Regards, 
Ryan Sumler 
Ryan Sumler 
CANADA POST CORPORATION 
Delivery Planning 
955 Highbury Avenue 
LONDON ON N5Y 1A3 
tel: 519-319-6865 
fax: 519-457-5412 
e-mail: ryan.sumler@canadapost.ca 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A 
Additional Developer Requirements: 
-
The developer will consult with Canada Post to determine suitable permanent 
locations for the Community Mail Boxes. The developer will then indicate these 
locations on the appropriate servicing plans. 
-
The developer agrees, prior to offering any units for sale, to display a map on 
the wall of the sales office in a place readily accessible to potential homeowners 
that indicates the location of all Community Mail Boxes within the development, 
as approved by Canada Post. 
-
The developer agrees to include in all offers of purchase and sale a statement 
which advises the purchaser that mail will be delivered via Community Mail 
Box. The developer also agrees to note the locations of all Community Mail 
Boxes within the development, and to notify affected homeowners of any 
established easements granted to Canada Post to permit access to the 
Community Mail Box. 
-
The developer will provide a suitable and safe temporary site for a Community 
Mail Box until curbs, sidewalks and final grading are completed at the 
permanent Community Mail Box locations. Canada Post will provide mail 
delivery to new residents as soon as the homes are occupied. 
-
The developer agrees to provide the following for each Community Mail Box site 
and to include these requirements on the appropriate servicing plans: 
• 
Any required walkway across the boulevard, per municipal standards 

Any required curb depressions for wheelchair access, with an opening of at 
least two metres (consult Canada Post for detailed specifications) 

A Community Mailbox concrete base pad per Canada Post specifications. 
3 
Bell Canada 
From: 
circulations@wsp.com 
To: 
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Draft Plan of Subdivision (S-2021-003) and ZBLA (Z-2021-006), Walker Hill Development, Brockton. 
Date: 
Monday, April 12, 2021 5:02:16 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
2021-04-12 
Planning Department 
Brockton 
Walkerton, ON, N0G 2V0 
Attention: Planning Department 
Re: Draft Plan of Subdivision (S-2021-003) and ZBLA (Z-2021-006), Walker Hill 
Development, Brockton.; Your File No. S-2021-003,Z-2021-006 
Our File No. 90099 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
We have reviewed the circulation regarding the above noted application and have no 
objections to the application as this time. However, we hereby advise the Owner to contact 
Bell Canada at planninganddevelopment@bell.ca during detailed design to confirm the 
provisioning of communication/telecommunication infrastructure needed to service the 
development. We would also ask that the following paragraph be included as a condition of 
approval: 
“The Owner agrees that should any conflict arise with existing Bell Canada facilities where a 
current and valid easement exists within the subject area, the Owner shall be responsible for 
the relocation of any such facilities or easements at their own cost.” 
It shall also be noted that it is the responsibility of the Owner to provide entrance/service 
duct(s) from Bell Canada’s existing network infrastructure to service this development. In the 
event that no such network infrastructure exists, in accordance with the Bell Canada Act, the 
Owner may be required to pay for the extension of such network infrastructure. 
If the Owner elects not to pay for the above noted connection, Bell Canada may decide not to 
provide service to this development. 
To ensure that we are able to continue to actively participate in the planning process and 
provide detailed provisioning comments, we note that we would be pleased to receive 
circulations on all applications received by the Municipality and/or recirculations. 
Please note that WSP operates Bell’s development tracking system, which includes the intake 
of municipal circulations. WSP is mandated to notify Bell when a municipal request for 
comments or for information, such as a request for clearance, has been received. All responses 
to these municipal circulations are generated by Bell, but submitted by WSP on Bell’s behalf. 
WSP is not responsible for Bell’s responses and for any of the content herein. 
If you believe that these comments have been sent to you in error or have questions regarding 
Bell’s protocols for responding to municipal circulations and enquiries, please contact 
planninganddevelopment@bell.ca. 
Should you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. 
Yours truly, 
Ryan Courville 
Manager - Planning and Development 
Network Provisioning 
Email: planninganddevelopment@bell.ca 
NOTICE: This communication and any attachments ("this message") may contain information which is privileged, confidential, proprietary 
or otherwise subject to restricted disclosure under applicable law. This message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s). Any
unauthorized use, disclosure, viewing, copying, alteration, dissemination or distribution of, or reliance on, this message is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this message in error, or you are not an authorized or intended recipient, please notify the sender 
immediately by replying to this message, delete this message and all copies from your e-mail system and destroy any printed copies. You 
are receiving this communication because you are listed as a current WSP contact. Should you have any questions regarding WSP's
electronic communications policy, please consult our Anti-Spam Commitment at www.wsp.com/casl. For any concern or if you believe 
you should not be receiving this message, please forward this message to caslcompliance@wsp.com so that we can promptly address 
your request. Note that not all messages sent by WSP qualify as commercial electronic messages. 
AVIS : Ce message, incluant tout fichier l'accompagnant (« le message »), peut contenir des renseignements ou de l'information 
privilégiés, confidentiels, propriétaires ou à divulgation restreinte en vertu de la loi. Ce message est destiné à l'usage exclusif du/des 
destinataire(s) voulu(s). Toute utilisation non permise, divulgation, lecture, reproduction, modification, diffusion ou distribution est 
interdite. Si vous avez reçu ce message par erreur, ou que vous n'êtes pas un destinataire autorisé ou voulu, veuillez en aviser
l'expéditeur immédiatement et détruire le message et toute copie électronique ou imprimée. Vous recevez cette communication car vous 
faites partie des contacts de WSP. Si vous avez des questions concernant la politique de communications électroniques de WSP, 
veuillez consulter notre Engagement anti-pourriel au www.wsp.com/lcap. Pour toute question ou si vous croyez que vous ne devriez pas 
recevoir ce message, prière de le transférer au conformitelcap@wsp.com afin que nous puissions rapidement traiter votre demande.
Notez que ce ne sont pas tous les messages transmis par WSP qui constituent des messages electroniques commerciaux. 
-LAEmHhHzdJzBlTWfa4Hgs7pbKl 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Historic Saugeen Metis (HSM) 
From: 
Chris Hachey 
To: 
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Request for Comments - Brockton (Walker Hill Dev.) - Draft Plan of Subdivision and Zoning By-law Amendment 
Date: 
Thursday, April 15, 2021 9:21:15 AM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Your File: S-2021-003 
Z-2021-006 
Our File: Brockton Municipality 
Ms. Smith, 
The Historic Saugeen Métis (HSM) Lands, Resources and Consultation Department 
has reviewed the relevant documents and have no objection or opposition to the 
proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision and Zoning By-law Amendment as presented. 
Thank you for the opportunity to review this matter. 
Regards, 
Chris Hachey 
Coordinator, Lands, Resources & Consultation 
Historic Saugeen Métis 
email: hsmlrcc@bmts.com 
phone: 519-483-4000 
site: saugeenmetis.com 
address: 204 High Street Southampton, ON 
This message is intended for the addressees only. It may contain confidential or 
privileged information. No rights to privilege have been waived. Any copying, 
retransmittal, taking of action in reliance on, or other use of the information in this 
communication by persons other than the intended recipients(s) is prohibited. If you 
have received this message in error, please reply to the sender by e-mail and delete 
or destroy all copies of this message. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bruce-Grey Catholic District School Board 
Candace Hamm 
Subject: 
FW: Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc 
Attachments: 
Application S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc.pdf; Subdivision Application S3 Walker Hill 
Development Inc.pdf; Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc.pdf; Notice 
of Complete Application S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc.pdf 
From: Al Hastie <al_hastie@bgcdsb.org> 
Sent: Monday, April 19, 2021 2:47 PM 
To: Planning Applications Walkerton <PlanningApplicationsWalkerton@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Fwd: Request for Agency Comments S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
No Comments 
Al Hastie 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bluewater District School Board 
P.O. Box 190, 351 1st Avenue North 
Chesley, Ontario   N0G 1L0 
Telephone: (519) 363-2014    Fax: (519) 370-2909
www.bwdsb.on.ca 
April
 
16,
 
2021
 
County of Bruce 
Planning & Development Department 
30 Park Street, Box 848 
Walkerton, ON N0G 2V0 
bcplwa@brucecounty.on.ca 
Dear Planning Department, 
RE:  
S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006 – Walker Hill Development Inc. 
Thank you for circulating the Draft Plan of Subdivision for the Walker Hill Development subdivision. The 
Bluewater District School Board (BWDSB) has reviewed the draft plan of subdivision and amendment to 
the zoning by-law, located in the Municipality of Brockton. The applicant wishes to develop 30 single 
detached dwellings, 2 semi-detached dwellings, and 49 townhouse dwellings. 
BWDSB has no objection to this development.  BWDSB requests the following conditions be included 
as part of draft plan approval: 
1. “That the owner(s) agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase and 
Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that accommodation within a public school in 
the community is not guaranteed and students may be accommodated in temporary facilities; 
including but not limited to accommodation in a portable classroom, a “holding school”, or in an 
alternate school within or outside of the community.” 
2. “That the owner(s) shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase 
and Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that student busing is at discretion of the 
Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey-Bruce.” 
3. “That the owners(s) agree in the Subdivision Agreement to include in all Offers of Purchase and 
Sale a statement advising prospective purchasers that if school buses are required within the 
Subdivision in accordance with Board Transportation policies, as may be amended from time to 
time, school bus pick up points will generally be located on the through street at a location as 
determined by the Student Transportation Service Consortium of Grey Bruce.” 
4. “That the owner(s) shall agree in the Subdivision Agreement to provide sidewalks and 
pedestrian linkages throughout the subdivision, to promote active transportation and safe 
walking routes.” 
Please provide BWDSB with a copy of the Notice of Decision, including a copy of the draft approved 
conditions for our files. Once the Subdivision Agreement has been registered, please provide BWDSB 
with a copy of the registered agreement in electronic format.  Once the Plan has been registered please 
provide BWDSB with a copy of the registered plan in electronic format. 
Please do not hesitate to contact us by telephone at 519-363-2014 ext. 2101 or by email at 
shelley_crummer@bwdsb.on.ca if you have any questions, concerns or for more information. 
Preparing Our Students Today for the World of Tomorrow 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely, 
Shelley Crummer 
Business Analyst 
c.c.: 
Coreena Smith, Senior Planner, County of Bruce 
Rob Cummings, Superintendent of Business Services 
Dennis Dick, Manager of Plant Services 
Jayme Bastarache, Supervisor Project Development 
2 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydro One 
Candace Hamm 
Subject: 
FW: Bruce - Roll 410436000101801 and 410434000206800 - S-2021-003 
From: Dolly.Shetty@HydroOne.com <Dolly.Shetty@HydroOne.com> On Behalf Of LandUsePlanning@HydroOne.com 
Sent: Friday, April 9, 2021 1:08 PM 
To: Candace Hamm <CHamm@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Bruce ‐ Roll 410436000101801 and 410434000206800 ‐ S‐2021‐003 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Hello, 
We are in receipt of Application S‐2021‐003 dated March 24, 2021. We have reviewed the documents concerning the 
noted Plan and have no comments or concerns at this time. Our preliminary review considers issues affecting Hydro 
One’s 'High Voltage Facilities and Corridor Lands' only. 
For proposals affecting 'Low Voltage Distribution Facilities’  please consult your local area Distribution Supplier. 
To confirm if Hydro One is your local distributor please follow the following link: 
http://www.hydroone.com/StormCenter3/ 
Please select “ Search” and locate address in question by entering the address or by zooming in and out of the map 
If Hydro One is your local area Distribution Supplier, please contact Customer Service at 1‐888‐664‐9376 or e‐mail 
CustomerCommunications@HydroOne.com to be connected to your Local Operations Centre 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Thank you, 
Best Wishes, 
Dolly Shetty 
Real Estate Assistant | Land Use Planning 
Hydro One Networks Inc. 
185 Clegg Road (R32) 
Markham, ON | L6G 1B7 
Email:   Dolly.Shetty@HydroOne.com 
This email and any attached files are privileged and may contain confidential information intended only for the person or 
persons named above. Any other distribution, reproduction, copying, disclosure, or other dissemination is strictly 
prohibited. If you have received this email in error, please notify the sender immediately by reply email and delete the 
transmission received by you. This statement applies to the initial email as well as any and all copies (replies and/or 
forwards) of the initial email. 
2 
