 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Public Comments 
Subject: 
FW: S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc. - Report 
Redacted e-mail address (Julie Rowe)
Sent: Tuesday, January 25, 2022 8:37 PM 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Cc: Candace Hamm <CHamm@brucecounty.on.ca>; Fiona Hamilton <fhamilton@brockton.ca>; Sonya Watson 
<swatson@brockton.ca>; Sarah Johnson <sjohnson@brockton.ca> 
Subject: Re: S3 Z6 Walker Hill Development Inc. ‐ Report 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
 I reside at 953 Old Durham Road.  I am a busy mom of three as well as a full-time teacher. 
I was a little late coming onto the meeting tonight at 7pm as I was assisting my daughter in getting 
reaedy for her in-class exam. THe connection was not the best either, so I feel that I ay have missed 
some points.  I am hoping to still be able to express my opinion. 
Due to a rather busy work schedule lately, I did not have time to prepare and submit a repsonse. 
I am very diappointed in the access being on Old Durham Road for the development.  I do feel that the 
current road going to the soccer field is flat enough and is less steep than Old Durham Road. If they can 
build and walk-way to the soccer field, they should be albe to build a roadway. 
The Cummingham Nature park is just that - not a recreational park. Mayor Peaboy talked about his dog 
playing the water. Would we want our children playing in the water? 
As Barb Hunsberger stated, the bus will not stop part-way up the hill, for safety reasons, so we shouldn't 
be putting others at risk - such as vheciles or children walking to the bus stop. 
Yes, we need sidewalks on Old Durham Road - not more traffic from a residential area. This past fall, I put 
in a request to have our road monitored more by the OPP. The traiffic is increasing in volume and 
speed.  We don't need more traffic here. 
There are plans to build an areana and municipal offices in the East Ridge. The existing road to the soccer 
fields will become a major route anyway - eventually. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I need to return to my daughter and her school work. 
Julie Rowe 
I did want to speak at the meeting, however, I was not able to figure that out -even though I have 
attended many Zoom meetings as teacher. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verbal Presentation to Brockton Council on January 25, 2022 
by Barb Hunsberger and Ted Piggott 
Mayor Peabody and Members of Council 
• Today, I want to focus on the main issue that residents on Old Durham Road have 
concerning the Walker Hill Development – The Access Road. 
• What I want to try to do is to make you understand why we continue to have concerns 
about the location of this road. 
• I will start by reading a paragraph that was included in the first Planning Report 
reviewed by Council on June 8th, 2021. 
To address issues raised by the public, the applicant will be asked to provide additional 
information on the location of the access, alternative access points considered (including 
those suggested by the public), and criteria used to select the preferred location. The 
applicant will also be asked to respond to issues relating to traffic volumes, safety, sightlines 
and associated noise and lighting created by the increased traffic. These comments and any 
resulting changes to the Draft Plan, if any, will be outlined in a future planning report. 
• I would like to point out that the areas that I have just listed would usually be included 
as part of a comprehensive traffic study that would normally be undertaken when a 
development is first proposed and not just be undertaken when concerns are expressed 
by residents. 
• 7 months later, the only area on this list that has been looked at in any detail is sight 
lines. 
Let’s have a quick look at the assessment of sight-lines that was done. 
• Simply put, the company hired by the Developer to do this assessment was directed to 
do a sight-distance assessment of 6 locations along Old Durham Road to see if any of 
these locations would be acceptable locations for an access road. 
• Only 2 of the 6 locations looked at were identified as acceptable locations. This 
represents the width of two building lots on Old Durham Road. 
• One of these locations has now been chosen as the location for the access road. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• It is important to note that the original location proposed for the access road was found 
to be the least acceptable location for this road. 
• We have no real concerns about the accuracy of the results of the sight-distance 
assessment, but we do want to point out the results were just based on drivers going a 
speed of 50 km/hr. 
• Where we do have major concerns is the fact that this company was not asked to look 
at any of the other issues identified by residents that had been listed in the first 
Planning Report. 
• These include: speed of drivers using Old Durham Road (which has been an issue for 
years), impact of hazardous weather conditions, increase in volume of traffic, impact of 
construction traffic and other safety issues. 
• If any of these issues had been addressed in a more comprehensive traffic study, would 
the two locations identified in the site-distance study still meet the requirements as 
acceptable locations? We would like to know. 
• Will the safety issues that are already of concern to residents on Old Durham Road be 
made even worse by a significant increase in the volume of traffic on Old Durham Road 
as new homes in the development are occupied? 
• Another big safety issue is the pick-up and drop-off location for the school bus. 
• The Developer considers the new location of the access road to be safe while the Board 
of Education picks up students at the top of the hill.  Why does there seem to be a 
difference of opinion concerning the safety of this location? Shouldn’t this be 
investigated further? 
• By the time the development is built out, there will be a large number of students (at 
least a bus load if there are an average of 2 children in every single-family home.) who 
are going to have to take the school bus. 
• Is it going to be safe, sidewalks or not, for this number of students to have to get to the 
pick-up and drop-off location at the top of Old Durham Road? This will require students 
to cross Old Durham Road at some point which might cause some significant safety 
concerns for parents of these children. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• It has been 7 months since the last Public Meeting and the majority of issues identified 
by the residents have still not been addressed. 
• In addition, our request of June 24th that we made to the Planning Department and to 
Council to be involved in looking at these issues was ignored. 
Access Road onto East Ridge Road 
• Now let’s move onto the suggestion from residents that the access road for the 
subdivision be onto East Ridge Road. 
• I would like to emphasize that this suggestion was not a frivolous one. 
• We feel really strongly that this is a solution that would address many of the concerns 
we have identified that are related to the access road being on Old Durham Road and 
would go a long way to minimize the negative impacts of the development on the 
surrounding residential area. 
• Because we were expecting to see a serious consideration of our suggestion, we were 
quite taken aback by the one-line statement we came across that essentially dismissed 
the possibility of any access road to the north onto East Ridge Road. 
• The one-line statement reads “A road access was examined from Walker Hill 
subdivision to East Ridge and was not advisable by engineers due to the steep slopes 
and topography in this area”. 
• This one liner is definitely not acceptable to us as proof that having an access road onto 
East Ridge Road is not a possibility. 
• We also don’t think that this one liner should be acceptable to Council. 
• Our question is: Where is the evidence that supports this conclusion? 
• We are now at a point where we have lost confidence in the adequacy and 
completeness of the information that has been made available to us. 
• Why have we lost confidence? For example, decisions made about the original location 
suggested for the development were based on what location fit best with the plan of 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the development and not on the basis of information that supported the placement of 
this access road as a safe location. 
• Another example. The reason given in the original Planning Report for not considering 
an access road to the north onto East Ridge Road was that the development was land 
locked.  Another one-liner with no additional information to back it up. 
• Even in the site-distance assessment for locations on Old Durham Road, the information 
collected was very limited. 
• If you want residents to accept the fact that an access road onto East Ridge Road is not 
possible, more back-up information is going to have to be provided. 
• This information needs to come from an unbiased source that does not have a vested 
interest in the development. 
• It is time for a more in-depth examination of potential access locations for a road from 
the development onto East Ridge Road. We would like to see a map showing the 
different locations considered, the location of other potential residential developments 
in the vicinity, reasons why each option being looked at would not work for an access 
road and what might need to be done to make them a viable access location. 
• As one option to consider, we feel that, if the Municipality can obtain a route for a 
walkway and utilities, it should be able to broaden that to include the road link. 
• We also believe that, with the help of the Municipality, a northern route can easily be 
found. 
• We do understand that Council is interested in getting this development underway as 
you feel it will be a positive development for Brockton. 
• However, we also believe that it is the responsibility of Council to make sure that what 
you are approving is going to create a safe environment for current residents, future 
residents of the Walker Hill Development and the public in general. 
• If Council is genuinely interested in trying to address the concerns of the residents on 
Old Durham Road, we are asking you to include an additional condition for the approval 
of the Draft Plan of Subdivision and the Zoning By-law Amendment. 
4 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
This condition would require a comprehensive study of possible options for an access 
road to the north onto East Ridge Road. 
• This investigation should be carried out by an unbiased party with experience in this 
area. The detailed results of this investigation should be shared with the residents. 
• If the results of this investigation show that an access road to the north is not possible 
and the alternative access location on Old Durham Road will need to be used, then 
further discussion with residents will need to take place. 
• The purpose of these discussions will be to identify the additional steps that will need to 
be taken by the Developer and the Municipality to try to address the concerns 
expressed by residents and to minimize as much as possible the impact of the 
development on the residents of Old Durham Road. 
Thank you for listening to our concerns. 
5 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Erica Beitz)
Bruce County Planning - Inland Hub 
Subject: 
Proposed Walker Hill Development 
Date: 
Monday, January 24, 2022 1:11:38 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Good afternoon, 
We are residents on Old Durham Road and we would like to express our concerns with the 
subdivision that is proposed on Old Durham Road, file numbers S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006. 
Our main concerns are still to do with safety and the amount of traffic that will be added to Old 
Durham Road by only having one entrance to the proposed subdivision from this street. Not only 
the amount of traffic from the residents of the subdivision but also from the construction vehicles. 
Especially with there not being sidewalks on this portion of Old Durham Road. We have young 
children and we have to walk on the road to get to the school bus stop in the winter. We feel more 
consideration should have been given to having a second entrance from East Ridge. I understand 
that it was not recommended to have the entrance from East Ridge because the grade is too steep, 
but that must be safer than having 80 plus vehicles entering onto a hill with speeding vehicles. 
There already is an issue with vehicles speeding up and down the hill well above the speed limit, 
even with the speed limit being lowered to 40 km/h. I was disappointed to see that the traffic study 
that was conducted didn’t take into account the amount of traffic that already uses the road and the 
speed that is actually travelled. The study used 50 km/h to evaluate the stopping distance 
requirements and adequate site lines. But how accurate can the study be when the majority of 
vehicles are doing well over the speed limit. 
I would like to be notified of council’s decision. 
Thank you for your time. 
Erica Beitz 
Sent from my iPhone 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: 
FW: Walker Hill Development - Public consultation Jan 25th, 2022 
Red
acted e-mail address (Darryl & Sharon Johnson)
From: Sharon Johnson 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.caRedacted e-mail address (Barbara Hunsberger)> 
Cc: Barbara Hunsberger 
>; Paul And Sue Mcarthur < Redacted e-mail address (Paul & Sue McArthur)
> 
Subject: Fwd: Walker Hill Development ‐ Public consultation Jan 25th, 2022 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Dear Coreena,  
Darryl and I first off want to thank Ted Piggett and Barb Hunsberger for there exceptionally written and factual letter 
addressing our concerns for the Walker Hill Development.  We 100% support the concerns and issues that continue to 
be brought forward as in there letter. 
We also want to thank you for having Paradigm Transportation solutions conduct there limited survey of the proposed 
exit.  Not included in the analysis was many of the concerns such as weather and road conditions, speed, and the 
numerous safety concerns that where brought forward. 
The report also lacked the details of what was investigated to the North.  Land has been secured for a 8 meter walkway 
but fails to suggest anything was investigated to secure 4 more meters to create a roadway.  
Barb has also questioned “would it not be in the best interest of Brockton to be proactive” in protecting the safety of all, 
by not creating an exit that will present as the Valleyside exit has over the years.  Proactive to listen to the concerns of 
the people who can see what this exit will create.  
Sincerely, 
Darryl and Sharon Johnson.  
955 Old Durham Road  
Sent from my iPhone 
1 
 
                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    
 
 
 
 
               
 
 
               
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The County of Bruce
 January 23, 2022 
Planning and Development Department 
30 Park Street, P.O. Box 848 
Walkerton, Ontario 
N0G 2V0 
Attention: Coreena Smith, 
Planner 
Subject: Walker Hill Development 
Draft Plan of Subdivision and Zoning By-Law Amendment 
File Numbers: S-2021-003 and Z-2021-006 
We recently received a notice from the County stating that a second virtual meeting is to take 
place on January 25, 2022.  This was a surprise as we were told back in June 2021 that residents 
who live on Old Durham Rd. would be kept informed and be part of discussions on the 
happenings of Walker Hill Development. We have not heard anything regarding the 
development process until recently. We have found this quite disturbing as the lack of contact 
from the County of Bruce and the limited access to any or all files or studies that have taken 
place. 
A previous letter that was written about our concerns was apparently denied because 
supposedly it was not submitted in time even though there was no indication anywhere of a 
“Due Date” 
Recently we have gained access to a so-called traffic study that was conducted because of many 
concerns that Old Durham Rd. residents brought forward.  After reading this report none of the 
concerns stated were met. Obviously, this study was conducted in no means to address the 
amount of traffic, the speed of traffic and the aggressive driving that happens on Walker rd. 
and Old Durham rd. as it was pointed out that Paradigm Transportation Services were 
“Retained to conduct an access location review for proposed residential subdivision off Old 
Durham Road”. This report is basically meaningless addressing the safety concerns of the 
residents on Old Durham Rd.  We feel that an actual “Traffic Study” should happen during a 
time that gives actual figures and not during the current state of the pandemic.  Doing a study 
during the present will only give false figures that in no way represent the safety concerns that 
have been mentioned.  Living directly to the north of the intersection of Walker Rd. and Old 
Durham Rd. we have witnessed that approximately 80% of motorists do not stop at the stop 
sign on Walker Rd. and with the speed of motorists travelling at a higher rate of speed than the 
posted 40km/hr on Old Durham Rd. poses a significant safety concern. When adding all the 
traffic coming on to Old Durham Rd from the recently proposed access to the subdivision, there 
will be a significant increase in traffic flow to an already busy road and amplify the chance of 
accidents. This will also increase noise pollution, the danger to pedestrians when walking or 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biking, and to the many young children who presently reside along Old Durham Rd. I suggest 
that maybe sidewalks and or speed bumps be considered. 
Referring to the new proposed access road which is basically just a short distance from the 
originally planned entrance, I can’t understand why the subdivision entrance cannot be located 
where the walkway on the north section is now proposed? It was said in previous discussions 
that an entrance could not be located there because of private property. I understand that 
access to East Ridge Rd. has been partially solved by securing a block of land from the “adjacent 
landowner to the north for a walkway” and underground utilities. This “walkway” would be the 
most obvious choice for an entrance into the proposed subdivision.  There is development 
happening right now and is proposed for further development.  I don’t believe that the excuse 
of being to steep for an entrance is viable.  Fill is going to have to be brought in large amounts 
to try and level the hill off and in doing so would decrease the degree of grade to the north.  
Old Durham Rd. has a steeper grade presently than the proposed walkway to the north and 
according to proposals, the entrance off Old Durham Rd. is suitable. Consider the hazardous 
conditions during the winter months.  Motorists are expected to stop when travelling east 
along Old Durham Rd. to yield to west bound motorists and then try to enter the proposed 
entrance? From experience travelling east and having to stop and yield to oncoming traffic it is 
next to impossible to continue momentum without an all-wheel drive vehicle. A revised plan of 
the proposed subdivision was received by the County of Bruce on Oct 14, 2021. Labelled on 
that plan is an untraveled road on the west border of the planned subdivision called High 
Street.  This already being a road allowance would also be a suitable entrance as it enters a 
level section of Old Durham Rd. and is closer to the business section of Walkerton. 
Referring to the proposed plan it is apparent that the developer is not interested in maintaining 
a rural setting subdivision.  The development of that many townhouses does not reflect a 
private atmosphere. Having high end residential homes would reflect on the current dwellings 
that are existing on Old Durham Rd.  The developer should consider the current landowner’s 
country like settings and move the proposed townhouses to the northern part of the plan 
where they will be less intrusive on the current residents. 
We would appreciate that these concerns are reviewed and taken into consideration. Also, we 
would like to be kept informed on any changes and revised plans that are developed after the 
proposed virtual meeting. If it is in the interest of the council to address the concerns of the 
residents of Old Durham Rd., then information needs to be made accessible and we need the 
opportunity to voice concerns that may arise prior to granting approval to the proposed 
development. 
Thank you for accepting our concerns, 
Tim and Terra Dale 
 
 
 
Nancy Baillie 
Box 490, Walkerton, ON NOG 2VO 
Rotary Club of Walkerton 
Rotary Nature Park - Chair 
January 17, 2022 
bcplwa@brucecounty.on.ca County of Bruce 
Planning &Development Department 
30 Park St. Box 848 Walkerton, On. NOG 2VO 
Re: File# S - 2021- 003 & Z-2021-006 
Attention: Coreena Smith (Planner) 
We would like to express our concerns with the Planning Report - Walker Hill Development. 
The statement in section 4.6 section b) Stormwater Management that states "The majority of the runoff 
from the proposed subdivision will be conveyed to the existing stormwater management facility in the 
Walkerton Cunningham Rotary Park directly west of the subject lands through Block 43(originally Block 
45) of the revised Draft Plan of Subdivision." 
The amendment mentions "designed in accordance with the Municipal and Saugeen Valley Conservation 
Authority guidelines including MECP's Design Guidelines". Is the Drainage Act part of these guidelines? 
I would also suggest that a 14% grade, as stated, will create quite a torrent of water. 
Other developers in Brockton have had to create solutions for storm water on their own property. 
The whole area of the proposed development and the Nature Park consist of clay and is dotted with 
natural springs. In the year 2000 Walkerton received four inches of rain within an hour. This could 
surely re-occur, with the changes in climate. I would suggest that not only the Nature Park but 
neighbouring houses in the area around the Park would be in jeopardy after a heavy rain with the 
additional storm water. If water is held in the existing storm water management facility a dangerous 
situation will be created for the public. 
The lower area of the Nature Park immediately north of the parking lot is so saturated with water during 
the spring and early summer that no equipment can be taken into that area of the Park for maintenance 
activities. 
Thank you for your consideration in these matters. Signature of Nancy Bailey
Nancy Baillie 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject: 
FW: Walker Hill Development - Public consultation Jan 25th, 2022 
Attachments: 
Response from Piggott-Hunsberger for January 25, 2022 Public  Meeting.pdf 
>  
Sent: Monday, January 17, 2022 11:43 PM 
From: Paul McArthur 
To: Coreena Smith <CJSmith@brucecounty.on.ca> 
Subject: Walker Hill Development ‐ Public consultation Jan 25th, 2022 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you 
recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Dear Coreena Smith, 
My wife Sue and I at 939 Old Durham Rd would like to officially lend our complete support to the exceptional letter 
drafted by our neighbors to the east, Ted Piggott and Barb Hunsberger.  So thankful that they have the time and energy 
and ability to summarize our numerous safety and other concerns regarding the proposed single access to a such a large 
development plan.  I agree the short dismissive explanation of the reason why there could not be a northern access is 
wholly unacceptable.  In the not too distant past a bus stop just across from our property was deemed too unsafe (kids 
had to walk to the flat area at the top of the hill or to the flat area at the bottom). It would seem the same type of 
statement could be made as if it were an established fact about the proposed access road.  Indeed further study 
ultimately decided the original proposal was less than ideal regarding safety.  Surely a northern access could be studied 
by more than one independent engineering group to see how it could be made to work, certainly an access that started 
in the northeast corner, near, along or through the existing solar panel property could potentially be a much safer and 
less disruptive access with benefits described in the attached letter. 
Sincerely, 
Paul and Sue McArthur 
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and its Committees should be aware that any personal 
information contained within their communications may become part of the public record and may be made available 
through the agenda process which includes publication on the County’s website. 
If you have received this communication in error, please notify the sender immediately and delete all copies (electronic or 
otherwise). Thank you for your cooperation. 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reta Cunningham 
Box 752 
Walkerton, On.  N0G 2V0 
January 14, 2022 
bcplwa@brucecounty.on.ca
County of Bruce Planning &Development Department
30 Park St.  Box 848 
Walkerton, On. N0G 2V0 
Re: File # S - 2021- 003 & Z-2021-006 
Attention:  Coreena Smith  (Planner) 
In regards to the Amendment to the Proposed Residential  Development on the above noted 
property, you state,  “ The  revised and new supporting materials were provided in response to 
agency and public comments on the ﬁrst submission. The most notable changes to the draft 
plan are to the road/lot layout to reﬂect a new entrance location to the site.” 
The location appears to be the only concern truly addressed in this study. However it still raises 
a lot of  safety issues. 
Traﬃc Report: 
The traﬃc study  based on sight and speed  @ 50K. does not reﬂect the actual speed  that is 
used on that road. A speed and volume report would be a better indicator.  However with the 
closure of “519 Table & Pour” due to Covid lockdowns, you would not get a true picture of 
vehicle volume at this time. 
Safety Issues: 
There was much discussion at the last meeting in regards to safety due to the hill for 
pedestrians and in particular children who must walk east, past the street entrance to catch the 
school bus. There is no sidewalk in that stretch of Old Durham Road.  Would the town, to 
accommodate some safety issues for the developer, be expected to put one in at the tax 
payers expense? 
Safety was also a concern for winter driving on the hill.  Residents voiced their  concern and 
experience, for traﬃc being unable to navigate that hill easterly and make turns due to snow 
and ice conditions. With the proposed increased volume of traﬃc it would become more 
hazardous for pedestrians/ children and vehicle traﬃc. 
North Entrance: 
There was also much discussion regarding the one entrance to support the whole complex.   
The only information that I ﬁnd where the developer might have investigated this is a one line 
statement in a letter from Brockton Clerk  Fiona Hamilton. Dec. 1, 2021 
quote “ a road access was examined from Walker Hill subdivision to East Ridge and was not 
advisable by engineers due to steep slopes and topography in this area.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This statement without more information is not suﬃcient for me to dismiss the possibility of an 
access road onto East Ridge Road. I have been advised the town has property that could 
provide access to East a ridge Road.  Is this true? 
Water Management page 5: 
Water ﬂow from the subject property.  It is well known that the spring run oﬀ has created many 
problems for the residents adjacent to the subject property.  There is also the issue of natural 
springs on the subject property creating bog like areas.  
“Facility” Walkerton Cunningham Rotary Park? page 5:
 Quote.  “The majority of the runoﬀ from the proposed subdivision will be conveyed to the 
existing stormwater management facility in the Walkerton Cunningham Rotary Park directly 
west of the subject lands.”
It continues on with explanation regarding the proposed management plan. 
The “facility” in the Rotary  “Nature Park”  was never designed to hold the volumes of water 
that may be experienced from the run oﬀ from the subject property. The land  was originally 
donated and designated as a “Nature Park” which the sign at the entrance  clearly indicates, 
“Nature” appears to have been overlooked by the developer. 
The Nature Park was gifted to the town, provided Walkerton Rotary was given stewardship of 
the park, thereby ensuring a natural and beautiful green space for the public to enjoy for many 
years. Over the past 17 years Rotary has set aside funds  to improve the park with yearly tree 
plants and maintenance. Citizens have donated benches and trees in memory of loved ones. 
As stewards of the “Walkerton Rotary Nature Park” I feel Rotary should have been advised of 
the developers plans to assume this green space and facility adjacent to his development 
could prove of service to him. 
It is my understanding that every other new subdivision approved by our council,  the 
developers had to provide on their own land, at their own expense, for their own water 
retention system.  Why would council provide land in this case? 
It is my hope that council would give careful consideration and address the above noted 
concerns before granting approval for this development to proceed. 
Concerned Resident 
Reta Cunningham 
(2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Eric Coleman)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Walker Hill Development - Walkerton 
Date: 
Tuesday, June 8, 2021 8:47:42 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
As a resident of Walkerton, not far from the proposed development, it pains me to see a 
developer take falling short of the county's *minimum* densities as a victorious 
accomplishment. We are making choices now that will impact Walkerton for decades to come 
- we need to ensure we are making the right ones. What becomes a concession today for lower 
densities and higher lot usage by properties can easily become the standard tomorrow. 
Brockton, and Walkerton in particular as the population centre of Brockton - not to mention 
the county seat! - should be aiming to meet that density minimum, if not exceed it. From 
someone with a vested interest in a thriving, successful community, adding density is 
essential; units become more affordable for buyers and renters alike, tax revenue per square 
foot is greater, and cost per resident to provide services likewise decreases. Higher density 
development also leaves more green space untouched. 
The commentary regarding traffic volume and safety on Old Durham Road is a topic that does 
require closer investigation and appropriate studies, if deemed necessary to ensure the safety 
of local residents. 
Frankly, if it were up to me, single family detached homes would be the exception for 
development going forward, with preference to semidetached, townhome, and multi dwelling 
units the default for residential development. I understand, of course, that there a not a lot of 
appetite among our current council for that type of zoning, however, I hope we can hold those 
who want to develop and profit from our land and community to at least the minimum density 
requirements. 
Eric Coleman 
336 Durham St E 
Walkerton, ON 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: 
To: 
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
File numbers S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006 
Date: 
Sunday, June 6, 2021 7:01:34 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attn: Coreena Smith 
My name is Tim Dale recently moved to 934 Old Durham Rd Walkerton on. From Stirling Ontario 
with my wife Terra and children Hayden and Aurora. We chose Walkerton because of its small town 
country feel and quiet peaceful atmosphere.  Recently we received a notice in the mail of a Notice of 
Complete Application for a subdivision behind our house to the north.  As I understand 
unfortunately the property was purchased by individuals from out of town who wish just to make a 
“Quick Dollar” with no care as to who they affect.  I feel the proposed plans will have a negative 
impact on the community and existing neighbors. 
Our concern with the proposed layout of the “Planned Subdivision” is the access road and number of 
four unit townhouses directly behind our property. 
As for the proposed access I suggest that the road be moved to the northern part of the plan and 
join Eastridge Road. The traffic on Old Durham Road is very busy as I believe drivers try to bypass 
County Road 4.  There are multiple children living and playing on Old Durham Road and the increase 
in traffic would make it that much more dangerous for the children and a huge safety concern. 
People are currently constantly speeding and not stopping at the intersection of Walker Street. The 
proposed access right now coming on to Old Durham Rd will be a blind intersection and will be an 
accident waiting to happen especially in the winter months when roads are snow covered. 
As for the area to the north of our property, I would suggest keeping the townhouses out of the 
existing homeowners “backyards”. Keep the townhouses to the extreme north of the plan close to 
the solar panels and build comparable homes to the ones on Old Durham Road on the southern part 
of the plan.  This would help in keeping a sense of privacy for the existing homes without looking at 
multiple family dwellings.  Or a better suggestion would be to create a “Green space” for the 
community by maybe putting a park or pond for the children and parents to enjoy.  The amount of 
natural springs in the hill would supply an ample amount of water as we unfortunately receive the 
runoff right now into our backyard storm drain.  That in turn can not accept the amount of water 
that a good storm produces and more often than not it overflows and spills down to the west of our 
property. 
The proposed lot to the west of 934 Old Durham Road should be kept as a service right of way or a 
walking path for the proposed community to have access to downtown without driving vehicles. 
That would increase the foot traffic on Old Durham Road and in turn would increase police presence 
and maybe slow down the speeding on the roadway. I would greatly appreciate if you would 
consider some of the suggestions put forward to preserve the picturesque setting of Old Durham 
Road. 
 
 
 
 
Sincerely 
Tim and Terra Dale 
934 Old Durham Road. 
Sent from Mail for Windows 10 
 
 
 
 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Reta Cunningham)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
File #S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006 
Date: 
Sunday, June 6, 2021 5:59:42 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments 
unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attention:  Coreena Smith 
Received your message in regards to my previous E mail.  I am sorry to have missed the deadline on submissions. 
However I did not see any deadline date on the notice.  I, and several others felt we had until June 8th to respond. 
In my haste to submit I have other questions and concerns. 
Is there to be a green space? 
Is the developer responsible for planting trees on the proposed lots? 
Will there be sidewalks? 
As the current proposed Street entrance is located in Brant Township, there is no sidewalk going east on Old 
Durham Road past Walker street. A huge cause of concern for people with school age children. 
An entrance from the North would allow for people working in Hanover,  Bruce Nuclear or other areas to the North 
to easily access them by County Road 19. 
Thank you in advance to noting this additional message. 
Concerned Citizen, 
Reta Cunningham 
Sent from my iPad 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Nick & Rozi Abell)
Candace Hamm; Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Walker Hill Development 
Date: 
Sunday, June 6, 2021 4:50:34 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attn Coreena Smith County of Bruce Planning and Development. 
Dear Coreena, 
My wife, Rozi, and I are just finishing building our dream home and very much looking forward 
to moving to Walkerton! 
We are on the west side of the proposed Walker Hill Development. 
I know there are always concerns when there is a new development, but also it is important 
for Walkerton and Bruce County to keep moving forward with economic development and 
increased tax base it would bring. 
With that being said we had 2 concerns: 
1) We think there really should be an entrance to the North side of the development towards 
the soccer fields. 
People going to Bruce Power, Owen Sound and Hanover would use that entrance and cut 
down dramatically on those turning onto Old Durham Rd. 
2) We thought there was supposed to be a green space in the development? 
We are surprised in this day and age that any new large development would not include green 
space in its planning. 
Thank you 
Nick and Rozi Abell 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Paul & Sue McArthur)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Walker Hill Development 
Date: 
Thursday, June 3, 2021 10:44:49 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attention: 
Coreena Smith,  County of Bruce - Planning and Development Department 
Dear Coreena, 
My wife Sue and I have been residents of Walkerton since 1995.  We have enjoyed bringing 
up a family at 939 Old Durham Rd since the summer of 1999.  We have been supportive of the 
development of the east ridge industrial park and investors in the hotel.  The opening of the 
519 restaurant and the continuing development of the industrial park and soccer fields have 
brought more and more traffic to what used to be a very quiet street out front of our house 
(while we've always had the noise of the hidden highway out back).  When the property across 
the street quietly came up for sale a few years ago, I was slow to think about the implications 
and when I did finally consider it might be a good long term investment I was just a couple 
days late when I approached the real estate agent selling it as the deal had just closed. 
With all the other residential developments going on in town, and with the difficulties the 
landscape, and water, drainage issues that would have to be sorted out, it seemed like 
development of the property would be years down the road.  When the buyer spoke to a couple 
of concerned property owners, they were reassured it would be developed with care and would 
consist of a group of larger lot single dwelling homes that fit in with the existing 
neighbourhood.  It was sad to see the long robust row of lilacs quickly cut down as it was sad 
to learn that our long term next door neighbours to our west decided it was time to leave 
before all the noise and construction moves in for a few years.  When we then learned of the 
actual proposal of 81 residential units, it became obvious the buyer's reassurances were false. 
The most concerning aspect of the development of course concerns the amount of traffic that it 
will generate out our front, and the proposals for a road access point off of a very sloped 
section of old Durham road where vehicles tend to allow gravity to accelerate their speed in 
one direction with snow and ice making it quite dangerous in both directions.  I am convinced 
the steep nature of Old Durham road combined with a busy intersection will make it unsafe for 
traffic, for children who currently have to walk up the hill to a flat section of road for the 
school bus stop, pedestrians, cyclists and future residents of the residential development. 
We believe the access location should be on a flatter surface on the north side of the 
development for safety reasons.  The intersection at county road 19 and Hwy 4 should have a 
round about or traffic lights with the increase traffic, particularly that will be turning east 
towards Hanover from the subdivision. The lots along old Durham road should be closer in 
width to the existing lots (even from 50 to 60' wide) to be more compatible with them. 
Sincerely, 
Drs Paul and Sue McArthur 
939 Old Durham Rd 
 
       
 
 
                  
      
 
      
 
        
 
             
 
 
 
             
 
      
  
 
      
 
 
 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Reta Cunningham)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
File # S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006 
Date: 
Thursday, June 3, 2021 1:37:14 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments 
unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Att: Corenna Smith 
In regards to the above noted file, I have several concerns that I wish noted. 
1.  Only one entrance to service so many sites and in a location that causes concern. 
entrance from the North should be considered. 
2.  I do not have children, but right now the children from West of the proposed
 (at crest of hill)  Perhaps an 
 entrance have to walk 
past that entrance to catch the school bus. Would create quit
 a hazard for those children. 
3. Block 31 - 34. If indeed are town houses, could perhaps be on the North side closer
 to the Soccer fields. 
4. Single family dwellings replacing them to keep in line with the existing houses that
 they would be backing 
onto. 
5. The Phase 1 space backing onto Lot 30 could remain a green space to allow for
 services and/or foot 
traffic for people residing in the proposed sub division. 
6. Water Run Off?  Space noted in # 5 above,  served as a natural run off for water
 coming of  the hills in 
the proposed sub division. The current storm drain behind the
 property  to the East  could not take the run off 
away fast enough and it overflowed
 yearly. 
These are some concerns I would like to see addressed at the Public Meeting. 
Concerned citizen, 
Reta Cunningham 
Sent from my iPad 
Public Comments received from Piggott & Hunsberger, dated May 26, 2021.  For more information, contact the County of Bruce.
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Erica Beitz)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Proposed Walker Hill Development 
Date: 
Tuesday, May 18, 2021 12:56:43 PM 
﻿ 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or 
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
 Good afternoon, 
We are residents of Old Durham Road and we would like to express some concerns we have with the 
subdivision that is proposed on Old Durham Road, file numbers S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006. 
Our main concern is with the amount of traffic this is going to add to Old Durham Road.  There 
already is an issue with vehicles speeding up and down the hill well above the speed limit, even with 
the speed limit being lowered to 40 km/h.  And with there being only one entrance for the entire 
subdivision, that is going to add a lot more vehicles onto Old Durham Road. 
We have young school aged children that take a bus to school, and we walk up the hill to the bus 
stop that is located just past where the entrance to the subdivision is proposed.  There aren’t any 
sidewalks on this portion of Old Durham Road, and in the winter the paved shoulder is usually 
covered in snow forcing us to walk on the road to get to the bus stop. 
Our last concern is about the width of the lots facing on to Old Durham Road.  Those lots are quite 
narrow and we feel they should be widened to better reflect the existing neighbourhood. 
We would also like to be notified of the County’s decision of this property. 
Thank you for your time, 
Erica Beitz 
Sent from Mail for Windows 10 
From: 
To: Redacted e-mail address (Mike & Julie Rowe)
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
Application concerns 
Date: 
Wednesday, April 7, 2021 7:06:36 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments 
unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
This message is to inform Bruce County Planning that I do not agree with 
the following: 
a) access to the Draft Plan of a Subdivions on Old Durham Road. 
This road is very steep and would not be safe. Instead we propoze that 
the acess be off of East Ridge Road. 
b) the number of duplexes purposed are rather high. 
We also wish to be informed of any decisions by the County of Bruce 
/Municipality of Brockton. 
Mike and Julie Rowe 
Redacted personal contact information for Mike & Julie Rowe.
From: 
To: 
Planning Applications Walkerton 
Subject: 
File # S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006 
Date: 
Monday, April 12, 2021 9:00:56 PM 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments 
unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attention: Coreena Smith 
Please accept this as my request to “Stay in the loop” regarding the noted 
File # S-2021-003 & Z-2021-006. 
Thank you, 
Reta Cunningham 
Walkerton, On. N0G 2V0 
Sent from my iPad 
