  
 
Committee Report 
To: Councillor Steve Hammell, Chair and 
 
Members of the Planning and Development Committee 
 
From:  Mark Paoli 
Director of Planning and Development 
 
 
Date: October 21, 2021   
 
Re: Saugeen Shores Official Plan Amendment Application L-2021-002 
(Westdell Development Corporation)  
Staff Recommendation: 
That Saugeen Shores Official Plan Amendment Application L-2021-002 be approved; and, 
 
That the Director or Manager of Land Use Planning be authorized to sign the decision sheet. 
Summary: 
The Application is seeking to change the Residential designated portion of the subject land 
to Highway Commercial. Approval of the proposed amendment will facilitate development of 
a commercial plaza consisting of four single storey buildings as well as a Seasonal Outdoor 
Sales Area. The front portion of the lands, fronting Goderich Street, is currently designated 
Highway Commercial while the back half is designated Residential.  The amendment would 
enlarge the entirety of the lands used for Highway Commercial uses. The Saugeen Shores 
Planning Committee adopted the Official Plan Amendment on August 16, 2021. There are 
outstanding public objections and therefore the application is being presented to Committee 
for a decision.  
Alignment with Guiding Principles: 
 
GOOD GROWTH 
To put growth in the 
right locations with the 
right services 
 
AGRICULTURE 
To support our key 
economies, including 
supporting a thriving 
agriculture community 
 
CONNECTING 
To improve our ability to move 
people, goods, and information 
between communities 
 
HOMES 
To increase the supply  
and mix of homes 
 
BUSINESS 
To create opportunities for a 
diversity of businesses, jobs, 
and employers 
 
COMMUNITIES 
To create wellbeing through 
access to healthy complete 
communities 
 
HERITAGE 
To identify and 
manage our cultural 
heritage resources 
 
NATURAL LEGACY 
To manage natural resources 
wisely for future generations  
 
Not applicable 
Not aligned 
Aligned 
Strongly aligned 
 
This proposal is strongly aligned with the Good Growth Principle as the location is 
appropriate for an infill Highway Commercial development. The complex will be accessed 
from Goderich St. and from Devonshire Road and adequate full municipal services exist to 
service the development. The site is within a built-up area of the Town and represents a 
logical and efficient use of land and infrastructure. The scale and function of the use is 
appropriate on this site. 
 
This proposal is also strongly aligned with the Business Principle as it will create 
opportunities for a diversity of businesses, jobs, and employers.  
 
On balance, this proposal is aligned with the Guiding Principles and the Vision of a healthy, 
diverse and thriving future.   
Airphoto 
 
Site Plan (full site plan is provided in appendix) 
 
Landscape Plan (full landscape plan is provided in appendix)
 
 
    
Planning Analysis 
The following section provides an overview of the planning considerations that were 
factored into the staff recommendation for this application, including relevant agency 
comments (attached), public comments (attached) and planning policy sections. 
 
Description of Proposal 
The applicant advises there will likely be 6 tenants occupying 4 commercial buildings (a 
large format store, a dollar store and small restaurants / coffee shop). 
 
Building A – this is the largest of the buildings and will have a GND of 2607 m2 and 2881 m2 
(Gross). A supermarket is a possible use. 
 
Building B – this commercial building will have 2440 m2 of floor area. The applicant has not 
disclosed the potential tenant at this time. 
 
Building C – this commercial building with 462 m2 of floor area is intended for a restaurant 
with a drive through window. The queuing lane provides 11 vehicle stacking spaces. 
 
Building D – will be a commercial building with 677 m2 of floor area. The specific nature of 
the commercial use has not yet been determined. 
 
Seasonal Outdoor Sales Area - this use will have 273 m2 of floor area and is intended as an 
accessory use to a permitted commercial use on the site. 
 
Growth and Settlement Areas 
The subject land is within the Settlement Area of Port Elgin. Settlement Areas are the focus 
of growth and development. The proposed infill development consists of a variety of 
commercial uses and represents efficient and compact land uses that will use existing 
municipal services and infrastructure.  
The proposal is in keeping with County Official Plan policy which states that higher order 
commercial facilities such as shopping centres servicing residents and visitors in the County 
will locate in the Primary Urban Communities designation.  
The proposed commercial uses have significant space and parking requirements and are not 
compatible with the compact nature of the core area. If this application is approved, the 
subject land in its entirety will be designated Highway Commercial in the local Official Plan. 
The Plan encourages Highway Commercial developments that do not adversely affect the 
commercial activities contained in the Core Commercial designation. The designation change 
is appropriate to facilitate the proposed uses which are not suited to locate within the 
existing structures in the downtown core. 
 
 
Traffic and Vehicular Access 
Highway Commercial areas are dependent upon a high degree of access and visibility to 
vehicular traffic on main roads. The location of the subject land at the intersection of 
Goderich Street (Highway 21) and a collector road offers visibility and vehicle access that is 
required for large-format retail uses along major transportation corridors. The proposed land 
uses (potentially a food store, restaurant/coffee shop and retail) and development scale 
conform to the vision for the Highway Commercial designation that would be challenging to 
offer in the downtown core. The proposed development will be oriented to and will benefit 
travelers of the highway corridor.  
Most of the traffic would be directed to convenient accesses on Devonshire Road minimizing 
traffic to the single all directional Highway 21 access. The proposed Highway 21 access is 
also located along the southerly property limit, maximizing the separation from the 
Devonshire / Highway 21 intersection. 
Landscaping Considerations 
The Official Plan requires landscaping between any “Highway Commercial” use or parking 
areas and the adjacent road. The applicant’s Landscape Plan shows landscaping along both 
frontages which will buffer/screen parking areas from sidewalks in addition to creating a 
softer and attractive perimeter.  
 
Implementation of the Official Plan  
Zoning By-law Amendment Application Z-2021-020 was considered by Town Council on 
August 16, 2021. Council made the resolution that adoption of the amending by-law be 
deferred pending County approval of the subject Official Plan Amendment Application. The 
zoning amendment proposes to change the zoning on the lands from Residential First Density 
(R1) and Highway Commercial (HC) to Highway Commercial Special Holding (HC-30-H) and 
permit a Seasonal Outdoor Sales Area that is accessory to any permitted use on the site. 
Relief is required to reduce the landscaped open space area from 30% of lot area to 28%.  
The Holding provision will be lifted after the granting of site plan control approval.  
 
Planning Opinion 
The proposed amendment will enable the entire parcel to be used for Highway Commercial 
uses, providing the applicant with increased flexibility to develop the site.  According to the 
Plan the Bruce Good Growth Report, the Town has an oversupply of residential lands to 
accommodate projected population growth to 2046. Conversion of the subject lands from 
Residential to Highway Commercial will not impact the Town’s overall Residential land 
supply. 
 
The proposed development is desirable and represents good land use planning. 
 
Financial/Staffing/Legal/IT Considerations: 
There are no financial, staffing, legal or IT considerations associated with this report. 
 
Potential Appeal to Ontario Land Tribunal 
 
Report Author: 
 
Barbara Mugabe 
Planner 
 
Departmental Approval: 
Mark Paoli 
Director 
Approved for Submission: 
Sandra Datars Bere 
Chief Administrative Officer 
 
Appendices 
• County Official Plan Map  
• Local Official Plan Map  
• Local Zoning Map  
• List of Supporting Documents and Studies  
• Agency Comments 
• Public Comments  
• Public Meeting Minutes (attached) 
• Adopted Official Plan Amendment Number 15 (attached) 
 Draft Decision Sheet – OPA (attached) 
 Site Plan (attached) 
 Landscape Plan (attached) 
 
 
 
 
County Official Plan Map (Designated Primary Urban Communities) 
 
 
Saugeen Shores Official Plan (Designated Residential and Highway Commercial) 
 
 
Saugeen Shores Zoning By-law [Residential First Density (R1) and Highway Commercial 
(HC)] 
 
 
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 
- Planning Report dated March 2, 2021, prepared by Strik Baldinelli Moniz. 
- Transportation Impact Assessment dated April 2021 prepared by Strik Baldinelli Moniz. 
 
Agency Comments 
 
Historic Saugeen Metis: No objection. 
 
Ministry of Transportation (MTO): 
 MTO has completed a review of the provided materials and have no requirements as 
the subject property falls within the connecting link limit of Port Elgin. 
 
Town of Saugeen Shores: Comments are attached hereto. 
 
Enbridge Gas Inc. (as Union Gas): Comments are attached hereto. 
 
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority: Comments are attached hereto. 
 
 
 
 
Public Comments 
Katie Lutz’ correspondence dated July 24, 2021, is attached hereto. Ms. Lutz objects to the 
granting of relief to reduce the landscaped area. She questions the need for a grocery store 
given the proximity to an existing grocery store. She expresses concern over staffing 
(employee) shortages in the area. Further, Ms. Lutz asks if a market feasibility study has 
been undertaken and if a contingency plan exists for potential future uses in the event the 
businesses are not successful at this site.  She wants to know if an environmental assessment 
has been undertaken and what the environmental impact of paving the site will be. She asks 
about what will happen to the existing barn/ dwelling as there is heritage to consider. 
Furthermore, she expresses concern over traffic flows and is concerned that the three 
Devonshire Road accesses into the site are excessive.  
 
The writer advises that after the public meeting the applicant enhanced the landscaped 
open space from 20.6 % to 28%. However, relief from the zoning by-law is still required as 
the proposal falls slightly short of the 30% minimum zoning requirement.  The relief now 
requested is a minor deviation from the zoning requirement. The site will have sufficient 
landscaping which ensures curb appeal, helps drainage in addition to the environmental 
benefits. Other highway commercial developments in Town have been granted relief for 
lesser landscaped area. The Canadian Tire / Walmart site for instance was approved at 15% 
landscaped area.  
  
Staff did not require a market feasibility study as the applicant will undertake their own 
assessment to ensure their businesses will be viable at the subject location. It is not Town 
practice to require a contingency plan as it is anticipated that the commercial use will be 
successful. Such plans have not been required for other commercial developments in Town 
and the Planning Act does not deal with this particular concern. The Act also does not 
address matters relating to staffing/employee shortages.  
 
Planning Committee also recognize the local value or significance of the existing farmhouse 
and barn and would like the applicant to consider preservation / repurposing of same. As 
suggested by Committee, the applicant has reached out to the First Nations and the Ontario 
Barn Preservation to see if there is interest in preserving the structures. To date there has 
been no response. 
 
Regarding the question about the development increasing traffic on Waterloo St, the 
applicant advises that the development is supported by a transportation study. There is no 
data provided relating specifically to Waterloo St. According to the Transportation report, 
analysis of the future background and total traffic conditions confirmed that the Goderich 
Street and Devonshire Road intersection will continue to operate acceptably.  
 
Ms. Lutz is concerned that the three access points off Devonshire Road are excessive. Town 
staff advise that accesses should be regulated through the site plan control process and not 
through the subject rezoning process. Ms. Lutz’s concern has been noted and will be 
considered at the site plan approval stage.  
 
Respecting environmental impact of paving over the existing building cluster and corn field, 
the Conservation Authority did not require an Environmental Impact Study. Conservation 
Authority staff finds the proposed development acceptable. Consistency with the Natural 
Heritage policies of the Provincial Policy Statement has been demonstrated; except for the 
habitat of threatened and endangered species policies which the applicant is required to 
address directly with MECP. 
 
Regarding drainage/stormwater management, the applicant will address these matters to 
the satisfaction of the Town during the site plan approval process and prior to issuance of a 
building permit. 
 
