 
From: Luke Charbonneau <mayor@saugeenshores.ca> 
Sent: Saturday, July 24, 20214:57 PM 
To: Katie L < 
Cc: Daniel Kingsbury <DKingsbury@brucecounty.on.ca>; Dave Myette <dmyette@saugeenshores.ca>; 
Jay.Pausner<Jay.Pausner@saugeenshores.ca> 
Subject: Re: In response to proposed Devonshire development 
 
 
** [CAUTION ]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe . 
 
Thanks for this Katie . 
 
I am copying planning staff so that they can include your concerns/questions in the public record to be 
addressed as part of the planning process. 
 
Talk soon. 
 
L 
 
On Sat, Jul 24, 2021 at 4:35 PM Katie L 
Hello, 
wrote: 
I looked at the proposal for a commercial development at the corner of Devonshire and Goderich in Port 
Elgin and I have a few concerns. 
1. The proposal does not meet the 30% green space requirement and the developer seems to want to 
minimize this as per the article in the Saugeen Times. This will impact the drainage in the area as well as 
the ambient temperature especially in the summer, this is a concern for all properties in the vicinity of 
the development. Will council stand firm on the requirement or even increase it? 
2. Is there a need for a grocery store so close to Independent? Is there a population that this will serve 
that is not already served by the existing business? 
3. If the businesses proposed do not do well do to market saturation is there a plan for what will fill the 
buildings? Is there a contingency for potential future uses? 
4. What good for the town and it's citizens is created by this development? We have many options for 
coffee and multiple options for  groceries. 
5. How will these businesses be staffed? There are many challenges with staffing shortages in this area . 
Also where will the staff for these businesses live? We know we have a housing crisis and almost no 
available rentals. 
6. What will happen to the existing barn and house looks on the property? There is heritage to consider , 
even if the developer doesn't understand  it. 
7. How do the access points to the property for with traffic flows in town and how with they change 
them? It sounds like there will be no access from Goderich St if one is travelling North, so will this 
significantly increase left turns onto Devonshire or will it increase traffic on Waterloo St? Is there 
capacity for this? Also why are 3 access points needed on Devonshire that seems excessive and like it 
might create traffic problems due to confusion and traffic weaving. 
Please let me know how these issues are being considered with this development and if an 
environmental assessment has been done as to how paving over the existing green space will impact the 
area. 
Thanks for your continued service to our town, 
Katie Lutz 
Bachelor's Engineering and Society 
Master's Public Administration 
Citizen of Saugeen Shores 
 
Luke Charbonneau 
Mayor 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
600 Tomlinson Drive, Bo x 820, Port Elgin ON NOH  2CO 
T 519- 832-2008 , ext. 142 
E luke.charbonneau@ saugeenshores.ca I saugeenshores.ca 
