 
 
 
 
 
The Corporation of the 
Town of Saugeen Shores 
Staff Report 
Presented By: 
Candace Hamm, Development Services Officer 
Meeting Date:  
August 26, 2024 
Subject: 
Woodlands Phase 3 Subdivision Agreement 
 
Attachment(s): 
None 
 
Recommendation 
That Council adopt By-law 68-2024 to enter into a Subdivision Agreement with Snyder 
Development Corporation Inc. for Phase 3 of the Woodlands Plan of Subdivision. 
 
Report Summary 
The lands are subject to a Draft Plan of Subdivision and the developer is prepared to enter into 
a Subdivision Agreement to develop 15 single-detached dwelling lots fronting onto Acton Drive 
in Port Elgin.  The By-law and Subdivision Agreement are included in the By-law section of the 
Agenda. 
Background/Analysis 
The Woodlands Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-002 was considered by the Town in July 2021 
and was approved by the County of Bruce on September 21, 2021, with minor revisions to the 
Conditions approved by the County on July 15, 2024.   
 
The lands are located near the shoreline of Lake Huron, south of Concession 10, in the 
northwest quadrant of Port Elgin, and have been zoned and Draft Plan Approved for residential 
development.  
 
Phase 3, as shown in the drawing below, is for 15 single-detached dwelling lots.  Future phases 
will be subject to subdivision agreements and will be presented to Council at the appropriate 
time. 
 
This Subdivision is in keeping with the Draft Plan Conditions that are in effect. 
 
Parkland dedication for the entire subdivision was provided to the Town during the Phase 1 of 
the development.  The total parkland dedication amount was $112,500, which is equal to 5% of 
the total value of the lands in 2012 ($2,250,000).  The developer paid $45,461 to the Town for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trail construction, and the remaining $67,039 was collected as cash-in-lieu of parkland 
dedication.    
 
Special conditions in the Agreement include: 
 
 Provisions for five additional dwelling units within the 15 lots.  Similar conditions have 
been included in other agreements with the Town.     
 Provisions for the transfer of lands to the Town and abutting landowners following a Part 
Lot Control Exemption process for Block 18, which will be presented to Council, at the 
appropriate time.       
Linkages 
 Strategic Plan Alignment: Strategic Pillar 1: Meeting the Needs of a Growing Community  
 Business Plan Alignment: Development Services Business as Usual 
Financial Impacts/Source of Funding 
The revenue of $1,266.08 associated with the administration fee for processing this Subdivision 
Agreement is contained within the Development Services Planning budget.                                                  
 
Prepared By:  
Candace Hamm, Development Services Officer 
Reviewed By: 
Mark Paoli, Director, Development Services 
Approved By: 
Kara Van Myall, Chief Administrative Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Location Map 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed Layout 
 
