5/31/2021
From: Jayne Holt   
Sent: Friday, May 28, 2021 12:05 PM 
To: Daniel Kingsbury 
Subject: Woodlands subdivision !
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the 
organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless 
you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Hi Dan,
I spoke to Julie yesterday. She advised me to email you. I live at 82 
North Shore Rd. Port Elgin. The next phase of the Woodlands 
subdivision is directly behind my property.
I called and leŌ a message for you on Mar.29 to be added to any 
future mailings regarding the new phase. I did not receive the 
recent mailings about the up coming mee ng. Would you please 
add me to your mailing list.
My major concern is the drainage. With every development that 
has happened behind and south of me the water ﬂow from the 
bush has changed signiﬁcantly . This has caused some serious 
ﬂooding across my property. The town did make a berm behind us 
draining to Fenton. This has deﬁnitely helped. I'm just worried with 
this new phase more water issues will arise.
Hoping to hear from you in the near future.
Jayne Holt
Individuals who submit letters and other information to Council and 
its Committees should be aware that any personal information 
contained within their communications may become part of the 
public record and may be made available through the agenda 
process which includes publication on the County’s website.
From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Susan Dunlop
Port Elgin Planning
Subdivision file #S-2021-002 
Tuesday, May 25, 2021 1:57:51 PM
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or
open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
I received notification of the proposed subdivision behind my home last week. My address is
84 N Shore Rd, Port Elgin ON. The concern I have about the application is drainage. We have
had difficulty several times in the past with water draining from the town - owned property
behind us onto our property. I would appreciate you sending me a detailed explanation of the
proposed drainage plan for this subdivision, please. If you could tell me the company
developing the drainage plan, and the company proposed to implement it, as well as time lines,
that would be appreciated as well. 
I thank you in advance for this information. 
Sincerely,
Susan Dunlop
Mon 3/8/2021 
9:30AM 
To: Port Elgin Planning 
D 
D 
D 
D 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
There are a number of issues that should be re-visited on the renewal of the application phase 3 
Woodlands subdivision. 
1. A new environmental study be undertaken since conditions within the lower 10th concession
has changed drastically with the construction new homes at the upper area west of Hwy 21.
2. I would like to know how many more phases are proposed for the Biener plot from the 10th
concession south to Acton drive. Will there be any green space left in this plot to support the 
resident wildlife? 
3. I believe the conditions of high water in ditches in Cutter Rd is a direct result of construction 
and drainage from new developments to the north. thus leading to the destruction of the green 
space that exists today. 
If you have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact me at the following 
number; 
Thank You, 
?? 
Dean Mccutcheon 
D 
Fri 3/5/2021 
11:48 AM 
To: Port Elgin Planning 
D 
D 
D 
D 
D 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Hi there 
I just heard on Jenny O'Reillys facebook page that our greenspace will be utilized for land development once 
again ... l have lived on Miramichi Bay since 1999 and am wondering when enough is enough? I own an empty 
field a mile or two away and cannot build on it .. why is it better to remove green space than to build in an 
empty field? No one would miss anything by building in my empty field. So sad for the residents, the tourists, 
not to mention the wildlife. These are decisions that cannot be undone. No more deer in our backyards, no 
more rabbits, all the reasons why people love our area in the first place will be gone. Please do not pave 
paradise. Pave my open field of 12 acres! The limitations you put on my field and people who own it are 
unsustainable. The $35/month I make on it doesn't even pay the taxes. Help us understand the logic in these 
decisions so we can support them ... 
Thx for listening .. 
Tracey Harron 
March 8, 2021
Attention:
Daniel Kingsbury
Bruce County Planning Department
We received the Notice of Application, File Number: S-2021-002.
We reside at 36 Cutter Road, Lot 5, Plan 524.
We would like to be kept informed about the aforementioned proposed application.
We do have some questions about this application as it appears to have changed from the
previous plan from years ago?
The information that has been provided is very confusing as there are a number of drawings
from the old plan that are over 10 years old as well as the drawing with the proposed
subdivision (and not the final proposed plan).
We would like to know the future of Cutter Road? We have maintained this dirt/gravel road
portion of the road for the past 39 years that we have lived at this address. We have not had
direct mail, garbage pick up or any road service/maintenance during this time. Our suggestion
would be to make a turn-around cul-de-sac at the end of the existing pavement which would
avoid having service vehicles having to turn around in neighbouring private driveways which
presently creates a safety concern for many of the neighbourhoods, visiting grandchildren.
Also, are there plans to deal with the increasing water table issues that the residents on Cutter
Road have had to contend with since there has been greater runoff from the top of the tenth
concession? This increased water issue appears to be related to the increase in subdivisions in
the area behind the Independent grocery store heading westward?
Access to the trails has been through a number of fire cuts along the north shore and I would
hope that the access points would remain. They were first placed to allow access to the woods if
there was ever a bush fire and that becomes even more important with residential housing
being built closer.
We would also expect the new lots to be full serviced lots including sewer and water and the
system could be extended to provide sewer to the existing properties maybe even easements
through the lots to provide service to houses on Cutter Road. (The same as was done with the
water system on Cutter to feed the houses on North Shore road.)
We are not opposed to a subdivision occurring behind our property but it would be nice to know
what plans are being considered for greenspace as well as future road proposals and the
increased water runoff concerns. Most of the proposed green space around our property is
swamp land and we are sure the new lot owners will not leave that undisturbed (i.e., filling a
swamp displaces water and displaced water needs to get to the lake somehow).
In conclusion we have 6 concerns we would like addressed in the proposal before the final
approval is given.
1 - Maintain Cutter Road as a dead end and make it safe for vehicles to turn around
(Cul-de-sac)
2 - Rectify the surface water problem that already exists on Cutter Road and also prevent from
getting worse
3- Access to the trails through the existing fire cuts must be maintained
4- Assurances that the green space will remain as wood lots and not be cleared cut
5- Assurances that Phase 3 will be the last of the subdivision approved on these wetlands as
agreed upon in the original application a number of years ago
6- The infrastructure in place to provide sewer and water to all new and existing properties
affected by this application.
Regards
Wayne and Deb Kaufman
Tue 3/9/2021 
8:49AM 
To: Port Elgin Planning 
Subdivision 2021.pdf 
33 KB 
D 
D 
D 
D 
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe. 
Attention : Daniel Kingsbury 
Re: File Number: S-2021-002 
We have attached a letter that expresses some areas of concern that we would appreciate having 
considered with respect to the proposed application. 
We would like to be notified of any public meetings or decisions that are made with respect to this 
application. 
Regards 
Wayne and Deb Kaufman 
36 Cutter Road 
Port Elgin, ON NOH 2(6 
D 
6 Cutter Road, Port Elgin, Ontario N0H 2C6 
 
June 15, 2021 
ATTN: D. KINGSBURY 
COUNTY OF BRUCE  
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 
1243 MACKENZIE ROAD 
PORT ELGIN 
ON N0H 2C4 
Re: Subdivision File # S-2021-002 
Dear Sir, 
We have the following comments relating to the subject application draft subdivision plan which 
is currently available for review on the Bruce County web site. 
Please be aware that we are supportive of development within the Town of Saugeen Shores. 
Such development is an important part of maintaining and growing a vibrant community such as 
we enjoy. We are also generally supportive of the proposed subdivision. However, all such 
development should be planned and approved with due regard for the environment and should 
not have a deleterious impact on existing properties and their owners. 
We wish to identify the following areas of concern which we want to be submitted to, and be 
addressed, as part of the public comment process associated with the subject plan application. 
We wish to be kept informed of the progress of the subject application. 
 
2 
 
DRAINAGE 
Drainage is a difficult and controversial subject. There are a plethora of drainage issues in the 
Saugeen Shores area.  The Town initiated a Master Drainage Study in 2020 to understand and 
manage current drainage problems, as well as avoid future problems with drainage. A draft 
study was issued for comment 2020 1but requires significant work to complete satisfactorily. 
This study is ongoing. This study includes issues which have been identified in the new 
proposed subdivision area. 
The proposed subdivision S-2021-002 is in an area which, as stated on page 11 of the 
associated 2010 drainage report2, is complex and difficult to predict.  
 
Since this report was written in 2010 a storm water management pond has been constructed to 
the east of the proposed subdivision area. This pond was constructed to support a different 
 
 
 
 
1 Town of Saugeen Shores 
Master Drainage Plan 
GMBP File: 219020 
December 2020 (Draft for Review) 
2 Lord Elgin Estates Developments Ltd 
Woodlands of Summerside – Final Stormwater Management Report 
December 2010 
3 
 
development further to the east, closer to HWY 21 / Goderich Street. Water discharge from this 
pond has resulted in drainage problems over the area from the middle to the northern boundary 
of the proposed subdivision. The issues include chronic surface water flows north along Cutter 
Road, and west in the Hilly Lane vicinity of the North Shore Road. Many parts of this area are 
waterlogged and swampy. The ground has also become saturated such that basements and 
crawl spaces of existing homes are at risk of flooding from ground water. 
The new subdivision plan proposes interceptor ditches in a couple of key places. These ditches 
will be designed to flow towards engineered culvert systems which ultimately discharge into 
Lake Huron. On face value it seems that the new ditches will indeed help to resolve existing 
drainage problems in the area, as well as facilitating drainage of the new lots, some of which are 
currently very swampy. 
However, what if the proposed drainage system does not work as intended? What if there are 
unintended impacts on existing properties? 
Given the complexity of the drainage situation, how will the Town hold the developer 
accountable for the correct function of the drainage system and for any corrective actions to 
prevent ongoing deleterious impact on existing property?  
We suggest that some sort of fund be set aside and held in trust to resolve drainage issues for a 
period, say 5 years. If all is well such funds can be released back to the developer. This would 
be much more acceptable than the current situation where down-stream property owners are 
‘on-their-own’ to resolve water drainage issues resulting from up-stream development activity. 
In addition, we are concerned that drainage systems will only work as designed if they are 
maintained. How will the proposed new drainage works be maintained into the future, once the 
development is complete? 
 
4 
 
WOODLAND PRESERVATION 
The Applicant and the Town have had discussions on the preservation of some of the wooded 
area in which this subdivision is to be built. A 30% target for preservation of woodland has been 
laid out for the overall project, as well as allowing for 30% wooded areas on each of the 50 
residential lots. The Town has facilitated this discussion by adjusting the width of the road 
allowance, and by allowing required drainage works to be constructed on town land. 
However, once a future owner of an individual lot obtains title to that lot, what is stopping the lot 
owner from clearcutting their property as they see fit? As an owner of a partially wooded lot, I 
understand that it can be quite onerous to maintain a wooded area. Trees must be monitored 
and maintained, and in some cases, removal is necessary for safety reasons, e.g., for the recent 
plague on the ash tree population.  
How is the Town going to monitor and enforce the 30% rule on each lot?  
In our opinion a complaint-based process enforcement process will be ineffective and puts the 
responsibility and pressure on others to monitor for non-compliance. Will there be a ‘planned-
inspection’ process of some sort which will hold individual lot owners accountable for meeting 
the intent of the woodland preservation plans? 
What will be the guidelines for replanting, for example, after a mature tree is culled? What are 
the expectations for replanting to maintain the target 30% wooded area? 
 
CUTTER ROAD, UNOPENED ALLOWANCE 
The location of the subject development makes good use of another strip of land from the 
current wooded area. The design layout is such that properties to the west of the new street will 
face the new street, leaving the unopened Cutter Road allowance in limbo to the rear of these 
lots. If the Cutter Road allowance is ever opened all the way to Fenton Drive, then it will merely 
5 
 
service the rear of the new lots. It seems, given the evolution of subdivision design in this 
neighborhood, that future investment in this unopened street is not effective use of resources. 
It is suggested that Cutter Road be made into a proper cul-de-sac which ends at the end of the 
current paved road. The unopened allowance can be re designated trail or parkland and 
continue to be used for utility and drainage. A proper vehicle turn space can then be constructed 
at the end of the current paved road in Cutter Road which would allow safe turn around for 
garbage trucks, snowplows and other vehicles. 
What is the current plan for the unopened Cutter Road allowance? 
 
IN CLOSING 
To restate, we are generally supportive of the new development proposal. 
We request that our concerns detailed above be addressed formally as part of the formal 
approval process. 
We would like to continue to be kept informed of the progress of this application. 
Thank you. 
SINCERELY, 
STEVE MCDOUGALL & CAROL VAN DER MAADEN 
6 CUTTER ROAD 
PORT ELGIN 
ON N0H 2C6 
proposed subdivision file # S-2021-002
Susan Dunlop 
Tue 6/15/2021 4:28 PM
To: Port Elgin Planning <BCPLPE@brucecounty.on.ca>
** [CAUTION]: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open 
attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.
Good afternoon,
I sent a previous message to you on May 25, expressing my concern about the drainage plan for the 
future subdivision behind my home at 84 Northshore Road, Port Elgin since we have had difficulties 
with flooding from that area in the past. A Mr.Daniel Kingbury sent my concerns to Steve Cobean at 
Cobide engineering. Steve informed me that part of the drainage plan for this new subdivision is the 
open ditch that the town dug behind my home in the access lane after the last flooding problem. My 
concern with this is that the access lane is full of phragmites. As I am sure you are aware, phragmites is 
a terribly invasive weed. Steve also expressed concern with the phragmites being there, as it has the 
potential to clog the drainage ditch, rendering it useless. I called the town of Saugeen Shores and 
spoke with Jay Pausner. My understanding was that he would get back to me as he was unsure who he 
should contact about the maintenance of the ditch and the removal of the phragmites. I have not 
heard back from him.
My concerns now are:
1) Who is responsible for the maintenance of the drainage ditch that runs behind my home in the
access lane and
2) What assurance can you give me that the ditch will be maintained once approval of this subdivision
is given?
I would appreciate hearing an answer to these matters.
Thank you in advance,
Sincerely,
Susan Dunlop

From: Daniel Kingsbury   
Sent: July 22, 2021 10:42 AM 
To: Jordan Archer; Robyn McIntyre  
Cc: Amanda Froese; Jay.Pausner  
Subject: RE: S-2021-002 Resident Question  
  
Hi Jordan,  
  
I’ve passed along your questions to the Town regarding the tree preservation with the Concession 10 
right of way as well as the rationale for the pumping station.   
  
It doesn’t appear you were on the circulation list for the original mailout.  It’s likely that our list is out of 
date given how new your subdivision is. I’ve updated our circulation list so you’ll receive future 
notices.  You’ll see that the public meeting already happened on June 21.  However, public comments 
can still be submitted and will be considered by both staff and County Council, who is the approval 
authority for Plans of Subdivision.  This application will be going forward to County Council likely in 
September.  You can participate in the meeting by attending a delegation if you wish.  Please let me 
know and I can forward you the information.   
  
 
From: Jordan Archer   
Sent: Tuesday, July 20, 2021 8:31 PM 
To: Daniel Kingsbury; Robyn McIntyre   
Subject: Re: S-2021-002 Resident Question 
  
Thank you for the information Daniel. 
  
What is the timeframe for the planning process associated with this plan?  When is the next 
opportunity for the public to voice concerns? 
  
Who can clarify the tree retention requirements along Concession 10?  The development that I 
reside in was recently developed and the lots adjacent to Concession 10 have a 5 meter tree 
retention buffer that provides a natural feel to the neighbourhood.  I would expect that any 
adjacent new developments would follow suit. 
  
Why is a sewage pumping station being installed less than half a kilometer away from an 
existing sewage pumping station?  How many lots would be serviced by this pumping station? 
All of the existing residents in the area are serviced on septic tanks, so if a new development is 
proposed it should be serviced via septic tanks or via the existing pumping station.  Having a 
second pumping station within the same area is poor development and would be a blemish to 
the neighbourhood.  If there was a second pumping station planned for this neighbourhood, 
then why was Lakeside Woods not planned to be included to be serviced by this pumping 
station? 
  
Please advise on the above. 
  
Jordan Archer 
 
From: Daniel Kingsbury   
Sent: July 19, 2021 11:45 AM 
To: Jordan Archer 
Subject: RE: S-2021-002 Resident Question  
  
Hi Jordan,  
  
Block 61 is a utility block for a proposed sewage pumping station. 
All lots within the plan are proposed to serviced by sanitary sewer which are to run within the Acton 
Drive right of way 
The Tree Retention Plan does not indicate any trees along the northside of Lots 36 and 37 along 
Concession 10.  There may be trees within the Concession 10 right-of-way that remain.   
  
You should have received notice by mail if you live within 120 metres of the proposed subdivision.   
  
Hope that helps answer your questions.   
Please feel free to contact me if you have any additional questions.  
  
Daniel Kingsbury 
Senior Planner 
Planning and Development 
 
 
 
From: Jordan Archer  
Sent: Sunday, July 18, 2021 8:12 PM 
To: Port Elgin Planning  
Subject: S-2021-002 Resident Question 
  
Hi Mr. Kingsbury, 
  
I am a resident in Saugeen Shores and reside just across from the proposed draft plan of 
subdivision S-2021-002.  I have a question related to the proposed plan.  Specifically, what is 
planned for Block 61?  Additionally, what are the sanitary servicing plans for this 
development?  Finally, are there any tree retention buffers for Lots 36 and 37 that will run 
along Concession 10? 
  
I was also expecting a letter notifying me of the public notice and was surprised to find out 
when I went online that the public meeting occurred over a month ago.  Were notifications sent 
out to existing residents in the area? 
 Thank you, 
 
Jordan Archer 
 
