  
 
Committee Report 
To: Warden Janice Jackson 
 
Members of the Planning and Development Committee 
 
From:  Mark Paoli 
Director of Planning and Development 
 
 
Date: September 16, 2021  
 
 
Re: Draft Plan of Subdivision – S-2021-002 Woodlands 
 
Staff Recommendation: 
That Draft Plan of Subdivision S-2021-002 – Woodlands be approved; and 
 
That the Secretary-Treasurer of the Land Division Committee be authorized to sign the 
Decision Sheet. 
Summary: 
Snyder Development Corp Inc. is proposing to develop a 50-lot residential Plan of 
Subdivision, known as the Woodlands Subdivision, on a 10.65-hectare parcel of land in Port 
Elgin.  A Public Meeting was held on June 21, 2021.  On July 19, 2021, Saugeen Shores 
Council requested that the County of Bruce Approval Authority approve the proposed Draft 
Plan of Subdivision in accordance with the Draft Conditions contained in the Appendix. 
Alignment with Guiding Principles: 
 
GOOD GROWTH 
To put growth in the 
right locations with the 
right services 
 
AGRICULTURE 
To support our key 
economies, including 
supporting a thriving 
agriculture community 
 
CONNECTING 
To improve our ability to move 
people, goods, and information 
between communities 
 
HOMES 
To increase the supply  
and mix of homes 
 
BUSINESS 
To create opportunities for a 
diversity of businesses, jobs, 
and employers 
 
COMMUNITIES 
To create wellbeing through 
access to healthy complete 
communities 
 
HERITAGE 
To identify and 
manage our cultural 
heritage resources 
 
NATURAL LEGACY 
To manage natural resources 
wisely for future generations  
 
Not applicable 
Not aligned 
Aligned 
Strongly aligned 
 
 
 
 
The proposed subdivision is strongly aligned with both the Good Growth and Homes Guiding 
Principles.  The proposed subdivision is to be fully serviced by both municipal water and 
sewer, within Port Elgin’s built-up area.  If approved, the proposal will result in 60 new 
dwellings, ten of which will be secondary dwellings constructed within a single detached 
dwelling.   
 
The proposal is aligned with the County’s Natural Legacy guiding principles by including 
conditions of draft approval that will ensure no negative impacts to the area’s natural 
heritage features or their function will result from the development.   
 
By providing active transportation facilities and connecting to the Town’s broader 
recreational trail network, this proposal is aligned with the Connecting and Communities 
Guiding Principles.  
   
On balance, this proposal is aligned with the Guiding Principles and the Vision of a healthy, 
diverse and thriving future.   
Airphoto 
 
Draft Plan excerpt (See Appendix for Full Draft Plan) 
 
 
 
 
 
Planning Analysis 
The following section provides an overview of the planning considerations that were 
factored into the staff recommendation for this application, including relevant agency 
comments (attached), public comments (attached) and planning policy sections.  
Draft Plan of Subdivision Details  
The lands were part of a comprehensive planning process in 2008 which included an Official 
Plan Amendment, Zoning Bylaw Amendment and Plan of Subdivision applications.  The lands 
were known as Phase 3 of the Lord Elgin Woodlands application.  Phases 1A, 1B and 2, 
consisting of 77 lots in total, have since been built-out.  
The remaining phase (Phase 3) had Draft Approval status, with a lapse date of August 19, 
2020.  The applicant, Synder Developments, had intended to register the lands and develop 
them in the near future, however, the Draft Plan inadvertently lapsed in August 2020.  
Under the Planning Act, Draft Approval Status ceases if the lands are not registered prior to 
the lapse date, if the lapse date is not extended.   
The application is largely the same Draft Plan of Subdivision that was previously approved in 
2008 with some minor modifications.  The application proposes 50 single detached dwelling 
lots like the previously approved draft plan, however, at least ten of the dwellings will 
include additional residential units.   
The proposed subdivision has been modified from its original conception to increase the of 
depth of the lots along the west side of Acton Drive to accommodate an adequate 
developable area on the proposed lots while meeting the 30% tree retention requirement 
recommended by the Environmental Review Study.   
The right-of-way is proposed to be reduced from 26 metres to 20 metres to allow for the 
proposed lots to be of adequate size, while accounting for the significant tree preservation 
area at the rear of each lot.  In reducing the right-of-way width, the developer identified an 
opportunity to construct a multi-use trail along the east-side of the Acton Drive extension.  
To accommodate the trail, the interceptor ditch is proposed to be shifted slightly east out of 
the Acton Drive corridor to the Town owned parcel adjacent. A road connection to Cutter 
Road has also been removed from the originally approved Draft Plan.    
From a principle of use standpoint, the underlying Residential designation and R1 zoning 
from the previous planning exercise in 2008 remain in effect.   As such, there is a reasonable 
expectation the residential lands will be developed for their intended uses, notwithstanding 
other applicable policies, such as those related to natural heritage and stormwater outlined 
in further detail below.   
 
 
Subdivision Policies  
Both the County and Town Official Plans contain policies to consider when evaluating a Plan 
of Subdivision for draft approval.  The Town’s Official Plan provides considerations in Section 
2.11.3.2 when evaluating a Plan of Subdivision proposal.  Council must be satisfied that 
these criteria have been addressed: 
a) the approval of the development is not premature and is in the public interest; 
b) the lands will be appropriately serviced with infrastructure, schools, parkland and 
open space, community facilities and other amenities, as required; 
c) the density of the development is appropriate for the area; 
d) the subdivision or condominium, when developed, will be easily integrated and 
connected with existing development in the area; 
e) the subdivision or condominium conforms with the environmental protection and 
growth management policies of this Plan; and, 
f) the proposal conforms to Section 51 (24) of the Planning Act, as amended. 
 
The County Official Plan provides similar policies for consideration when evaluating 
Subdivision applications, however, it also establishes additional consideration, including 
density target of 15 units per hectare for subdivisions on full services and 30% target for 
housing to be comprised of medium or high density from, unless is justified to be 
inappropriate to meet these targets. 
The proposal meets the criteria set out for Subdivision application in both the County and 
Town Official Plans, particularly when accounting for the broader comprehensive planning 
exercise that the lands were part of several years ago through the Lord Elgin Estates 
proposal.  That proposal, which is currently in the process of being built, includes a range 
densities and housing forms.  
Efficient Use of Land and Infrastructure 
The lands are designated as a Primary Urban Community in the Bruce County Official Plan 
and Residential in the Town’s Official Plan.  Both plans direct a majority of the Town’s 
growth to be on serviced lands within the Town’s boundaries.  A primary objective is to 
ensure the wise use of land, promote efficient development patterns and minimize impacts 
to natural resources, including agricultural and ecologically sensitive lands.  Likewise, it is 
important to consider the sustainability of infrastructure to minimize impacts to future 
generations who will have to maintain and replace what is built today.   
The County Official Plan establishes a minimum density target to help facilitate the efficient 
use of land and infrastructure.  The County Official Plan directs that subdivisions generally 
be developed at 15 units per gross developable hectare.  The proposed subdivision does not 
meet the density target, however, the County Official Plan allows for consideration of 
developments that do not meet this target when justified.   
In this regard, consideration should be given to the plan’s density relative to the overall 
density of the previously approved subdivisions in the area by Lord Elgin Estates 
Developments Ltd (LEEDL).  LEEDL was the original applicant of this previous subdivision 
application on the lands, as well as the large development on the above the Lake Nipissing 
Bluff, immediately east of the lands.  The previous approvals accounted for overall density 
across all the LEEDL lands, and transferred much of the higher density development, such as 
apartment blocks, to the lands closer to Highway 21.   
The resulting development pattern enabled more dense development to be located closer to 
services, while maintaining a lower density on the lands below the Lake Nipissing Bluff that 
is generally more consistent with the neighbourhood character of the area.   It is also noted 
the lands subject to the current application are generally more challenging to develop at a 
higher density due to the site characteristics.  The applicant is proposing to construct 20% of 
the proposed dwellings with secondary suites included in order to increase the overall 
density of the subdivision.   
Affordable and Attainable Housing  
Both the County and Town Official Plans contain policies regarding affordability. The Plans 
direct that 30% of new residential development be affordable and that 30% of new 
development be available as rental housing.  This is a target for all of development in Town 
and is not expected to be met through every site-specific development.  The County and 
Town Official Plan implementation policies do not provide specific direction regarding 
affordability for individual proposals. The applicant acknowledges that the proposed 
subdivision will not be considered affordable, however, efforts have been made to 
accommodate rental units by constructing secondary suites, initially in five of the proposed 
dwellings but rising to 10 units at the request of the Town.  The construction of the 
proposed dwellings will also contribute to the Town’s overall supply by allowing some 
prospective purchasers to vacate their existing dwellings elsewhere in Town. Also, similar to 
the density analysis above, consideration should be given to the overall density across all the 
LEEDL lands, including the higher density development, such as apartment blocks, to the 
lands closer to Highway 21.   
Stormwater Management and Drainage 
Both the County and Town Official Plans require that stormwater management strategies be 
provided for new subdivision development to control flooding, ponding, erosion and 
sedimentation, and to provide protection of water resources and natural habitat dependent 
upon watercourses.   
The lands are within a heavily forested area below a steep embankment which once formed 
the shoreline of the glacial Lake Nipissing bluff.  The lands generally flow east to west and 
are characterized by a number of small groundwater fed streams that flow in a westerly 
direction for eventual discharge into Lake Huron.   
The application was supported by a Stormwater Management (SWM) Report (Pryde, Schropp 
and McComb, 2010), which provides a preliminary overview of stormwater management on 
the lands as a result of the proposed development.  The report was reviewed by Saugeen 
Valley Conservation Authority (SVCA) staff, who indicated that the proposed stormwater 
management concept is acceptable in principle.  The SVCA requested that the draft approval 
of the subdivision be conditional on completion of a final Stormwater Management Report 
for the lands, including detailed engineering drawings (lot grading plan, sediment control 
plan, stormwater, management catchment diagrams, etc.).  
A number of the public comments noted existing drainage and flooding issues from residents 
abutting the proposed development.  The lands contain a complex drainage system due to 
numerous sand ridges and pockets of wetlands within the woodland area.  The SWM Report 
calls for infrastructure to be designed with an increased factor of safety to accommodate 
the complex drainage issues in the area.  The infrastructure has been designed to 
accommodate a 1 in 100 year flood event.   
Surface water runoff west of the glacial Lake Nipissing Bluff is proposed to be intercepted by 
a drainage ditch on the east side of the Acton Drive extension as depicted in the image 
below.  The interceptor ditch will direct water to existing and proposed culverts with 
eventual discharge into Lake Huron as shown in figure below.  Water quality is to be 
managed by grit and oil separators prior to discharge.  Existing surface water impacts to the 
existing residential areas abutting the western portion of the lands will be mitigated as a 
result of the proposed inceptor ditch.   
Portions of the land also contain a high water table.  A perforated drainage system is 
proposed to assist in lowering the water table along Acton Drive, however, there may remain 
some locations where it is necessary to restrict basements from being constructed.   
The proposed SWM infrastructure associated with the subdivision will result in an 
improvement to existing drainage and flooding issues on the lands and is likely to alleviate 
these issues on adjacent lands.    
 
 
Natural Heritage 
The lands are designated Residential by the Town’s Official Plan as well as being within 
Special Policy Area #4 (SPA 4), which generally encompasses the largely wooded area west of 
the glacial Lake Nipissing bluff between Southampton and Port Elgin.  Lands within SPA #4 
exhibit important natural heritage features, such as significant woodlands, significant 
wildlife habitat, fish habitat, and species of conservation concern.  The area also contains 
hazardous conditions, such as areas with high groundwater conditions and complex drainage.   
 
The Town’s Official Plan also recognizes the that new residential uses are permitted in 
specific and limited locations designated within SPA #4 that avoid hazardous and ecologically 
sensitive features.  The policies for SPA #4 also require specific mitigation measures to limit 
impacts to natural heritage features and natural hazards.   
 
An Environmental Review Study was completed in by Stantec Consulting in 2008 in support of 
the original Plan of Subdivision application for the lands.  The same report was also 
submitted in support of the current application.  Staff from the SVCA have reviewed the 
report and acknowledge that a considerable amount of time has passed since the fieldwork 
was completed.  Nevertheless, SVCA staff consider the 2008 study to be sufficient for Draft 
Approval purposes, however, the have requested the Environmental Review Study be 
updated prior to final approval of the subdivision.  This requirement will be included a 
condition of draft approval.   
 
The Environmental Review Study indicates that the lands contain a Locally Significant 
Wetland, Significant Woodland, and Significant Wildlife Habitat for area-sensitive birds and 
locally rare vegetation.  Development is generally prohibited within and adjacent to 
significant natural heritage features unless it has been demonstrated that there will be no 
negative impacts on the natural features or their ecological functions. 
 
The Environmental Review Study concludes that no negative impacts from development are 
likely subject to implementing a number of mitigation measures, including directing 
development away from these significant features, and maintaining a large contiguous 
portion of woodland which functions as habitat for a variety of breeding birds, amphibians, 
fish and plant species in a natural state.   
 
A tree retention plan has been completed to minimize the extent of tree removal 
and disturbance associated with the proposed development. In total there are 27 proposed 
mitigation measures to be implemented during construction as well as longer term 
measures.  The existing R1-48-h zoning contains a holding provision that requires a Site Plan 
Agreement to be registered on title addressing such items as tree retention and building 
envelopes.   
 
The requirement for an updated EIS prior to final approval will provide an opportunity to 
confirm the natural heritage features on the property.  Through a Memorandum of 
Agreement (MOA), the Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority acts as the technical authority 
on natural heritage issues related Planning Act applications processed by the County’s 
Planning Department on behalf of the Town.  The SVCA has indicated the proposal, in 
conjunction with the updated EIS, conforms to the applicable natural polices in the County 
and Town Official and is likewise consistent the Provincial Policy Statement.  
 
A number of the public comments received expressed concerns regarding impacts to natural 
heritage features and the loss of woodlands. The policy context for this particular area of 
Town does envision the possibility of development subject to avoiding key features as well 
demonstrating no negative impacts to the overall ecological function of the area.  Based on 
the review of the SVCA, the proposal has satisfied the necessary natural heritage policy 
requirements for planning staff to recommend approval of the Draft Plan, recognizing that 
there are additional natural heritage Draft Plan Conditions that need to be satisfied before 
the plan can receive final approval.    
 
 
 
Trails  
The area surrounding the proposed subdivision contains a number of recreational trails 
ranging in size and function.  If approved, a multi-use trail within the Acton Drive right of 
way is proposed, providing a connection through the existing terminus of Acton Drive and 
Concession 10.  The proposed trail would also connect to the extensive local and regional 
trail system in the area.  The proposed trails will provide recreation and active 
transportation options to residents of the proposed neighbourhood, as well as the broader 
community. This outcome is aligned with the Town’s Official Plan as well as the Town’s 
recently completed Transportation Master Plan.   
 
Land Use Compatibility 
The subdivision is to be developed as low density, consisting of 50 single detached dwellings. 
This form of housing is compatible with the existing neighbourhood. Compatibility 
considerations with regards to natural heritage features have been accounted for in the 
design of the subdivision.   Much of the proposed development along the Acton Drive 
extension is restricted to the west side of the road to mitigate impacts to the woodland 
feature.  The Tree Preservation Plan (TPP) incorporates a vegetative buffer in the rear yards 
of the proposed lots ranging in width from approximately 20 to 30 metres.  The proposed 
subdivision is appropriate for the existing neighbourhood surrounding the lands. 
 
 Sewer and Water Services 
Full municipal water and sewage services are the preferred form of servicing for subdivision 
developments within the Town.  The proposed subdivision is to be serviced by municipal 
water and sanitary sewer.  It is anticipated that municipal water and sanitary sewer system 
will have capacity for the proposed development.  It is noted that some homes that are 
proposed to be situated at the north end of Acton Drive may be below the elevation of the 
North Shore Road may require individuals pumps to discharge into proposed sewer system.  
The existing R-48-h zoning contains a holding provision that requires service allocation to be 
completed to the satisfaction of the Town.  
Financial/Staffing/Legal/IT Considerations: 
Potential Appeal to Ontario Land Tribunal (OLT)  
 
Report Author: 
Daniel Kingsbury 
Senior Policy Planner 
 
Departmental Approval: 
Mark Paoli  
Director of Planning and Development  
 
Approved for Submission: 
Sandra Datars Bere 
Chief Administrative Officer 
Appendices 
 County Official Plan Map 
 Local Official Plan Map 
 Local Zoning Map 
 List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Proposed Draft Plan of Subdivision 
 Tree Retention Plan 
 Trails Plan 
 Agency Comments  
 Public Comments  
County Official Plan Map (Designated Primary Urban) 
 
Local Official Plan Map (Designated Residential, Special Policy Area #4 Overlay) 
 
Local Zoning Map (Zoned Residential First Density Special Holding ‘R1-48-h) 
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Application Cover Letter – Cobide Engineering, 2021 
 Archaeological Assessment (Stage 1 & 2) – Amick Consultants, 2006 
 Scoped Environmental Review Study – Stantec, 2008 
 Master Servicing Study – PSMI, 2008 
 Stormwater Management Report – PSMI, 2010 
 Planning Justification Report – Ron Davidson Land Use Planning Consultant Inc., 2021 
 
 
Agency Comments 
Historic Saugeen Métis (Full comments provided below):   
 Concerns regarding date of field studies complete for Environmental Review Study.   
 Concerns regarding impacts to existing trail system 
 Noted that Archaeological Assessment lacks reference to Métis occupation to the 
area.  Also notes the HSM has an interest in findings that may be uncovered during 
development given historic harvesting and transportation routes.  
Staff Response: The SVCA act as the County’s technical advisor in regard to natural heritage 
and natural hazard issues.  They have recommended that the existing Environmental Review 
Study be updated prior to Final approval.  This requirement will be included as a Condition 
of Draft Approval.   
The applicant has supplied an updated Trail Map of the area showing existing and proposed 
trails on the lands as well as on the abutting lands.  
HSM comments have been passed on the applicant in regards to identifying an interest in 
potential findings uncovered during development.  All findings shall be subject to Provincial 
statutes and regulations regarding archaeological artifacts discovered during construction 
activities.     
Saugeen Valley Conservation Authority: (Full comments provided below) 
 SVCA staff finds the proposed development to be acceptable in principle, however, 
they are recommending that draft approval be granted subject to a number of 
conditions related to natural heritage and natural hazard issues.   
Staff Response:  The recommended conditions from the SVCA will be incorporated 
Conditions of Draft Approval.  The SVCA will be a clearance agency on those conditions.  
Final approval of the subdivision will require completion of the conditions to satisfaction of 
the SVCA.   
Canada Post:  Mail delivery service to the development through centralized Community Mail 
Boxes  
 
Staff Response:  Comments forwarded to applicant to facilitate Canada Post siting 
requirements.   
 
 
Public Comments 
Public comments are summarized immediately below and provided full further in the report.    
Clarifying comments have been provided by staff where necessary.  
Bob Simpson (9 Cutter Road) – Concerned that proposed subdivision will cut off access to  
Beiner Bush Trail as well poor drainage in the area and risk of flooding in the spring.   
Staff Response - The proposed trail system on the lands will connect the trails in Beiner 
Bush.  The construction of stormwater management infrastructure, particularly the 
interceptor ditch should improve drainage and mitigate flood risks in the area.   
 
Lori Bayes (161 Stickel) – Concerned about impacts that development will have on natural 
heritage features.   
Staff Response – The lands are designated for Residential uses subject to the natural 
heritage polices of Special Policy Area #4.  As such, there is a reasonable expectation that 
the lands will be developed subject to meeting the criteria outlined in SPA #4, including 
demonstrating no negative impacts to the natural heritage features or their ecological 
function. 
Robin Cork (address not Provided) – Concerned that proposed subdivision will take away 
from the trail system and remove green space. 
Staff Response - See comments above regarding trails and a natural heritage impacts. 
Dave and Ellen Smith (34 Cutter Road) – Seeking clarification on wooded area shown on site 
plan.  Concerns regarding date of supporting studies.  Seeking clarification regarding plans 
to connect homes on Cutter Drive to sanitary sewer system.   
Staff Response – There are two site plans on the application website.  One shows the 
proposed lot fabric, while the other shows the lot fabric with the Tree Preservation Plan 
overlayed.  Many of the studies submitted in support of the application are preliminary 
studies from the previous subdivision application on the lands. The information is generally 
still relevant and acceptable for Draft Approval purposes, however, final approval will be 
dependent on providing final detailed engineering studies as is typical in with subdivision 
approvals.  The Environmental Review Study will also be updated.  The question regarding 
servicing on Cutter Drive has been forwarded to the Town.   
Jennie Wiedmann (address not provided) – Concerned that this development will destroy a 
forest that holds sentimental value to them. Suggests developing elsewhere, some place 
where there are no trees. 
Staff Response:  The lands are within Special Policy Area #4, which recognizes this to be an 
area of high natural heritage value. Town’s Official Plan also recognizes the that new 
residential uses are permitted in specific and limited locations designated within SPA #4 
that avoid hazardous and ecologically sensitive features.   
 
Debb Poff (address not provided) – Concerned that this development will take away 
greenspace and threaten the homes of local wildlife.  
Staff Response:  See comment above  
 
Jodi McDonald (address not provided) – Concerned that this development will destroy 
nearby trails. Suggests that these trails are being used by residents now more than ever, and 
that a valuable public resource for exercise and recreation would be lost through the 
construction in this area.  
Staff Response:  See trails-related comments above 
 
Jennifer O’Reilly (11 Cutter Road) – Concerned that the development would remove the 
“blue ski trail” that Jennifer and their neighbors use often. Also has a concern that the 
public has been misled by trails signs into believing that these trails will remain untouched 
by development, although suggests that their destruction would be unavoidable as they go 
right through the development. 
Staff Response:  See trails-related comments above 
 
Dean McCutcheon (address not provided) – Concerned that the current environmental study 
is out of date, not accounting for the new homes at the upper area west of highway 21. 
Expresses confusion about how many phases are planned for the Biener plot from the 10th 
concession south of Acton drive, and is concerned for the greenspace left to support local 
wildlife as a result of construction. Also concerned that the high water in ditches in Cutter 
Road are the result of construction from the north. 
Staff Response:  As noted, the SVCA has concluded that the Environmental Study Report is 
sufficient for Draft Approval purposes, but will be required to be updated prior to final 
approval.  A phasing plan will be confirmed prior to final approval in consultation with the 
applicant and Town staff.  Phasing is contingent upon a number of factors, including the 
provision of services.  A detailed engineer report will be required prior to final approval to 
the satisfaction of the SVCA, Town and County.   
Tracey Harron (address not provided) – Concerned that the development will negatively 
impact local wildlife, tourism, and residents.    
Staff Response:  See SPA #4 comments above with regard to natural heritage impacts. 
Wayne and Susan Dent (25 Cutter Rd) – Concerned that the development will further 
increase the water drainage issues caused by new lots at the top of the area’s hill. Is also 
concerned that this development will remove the nearby fire lane that many residents use to 
access the nearby trail system. Also concerned that the trees on private lots might be 
counted towards the 30% tree retention mentioned in the proposal. Finally, is concerned 
that the provided studies are out of date. 
Staff response:  The concern regarding the fire lane has been referred to Town staff for 
clarification.  The Tree Preservation Plan details tree retention on individual lots, which 
counts towards the overall target of 30%.  See note above date of studies and update 
requirements.   
Wayne and Deb Kaufman (36 Cutter Road) – They wish for Cutter Road to maintain as a 
dead end to make it safe for vehicles to turn around, rectify existing surface water issues 
and prevent them from getting worse, they wish that the fire lain is maintained as an access 
to nearby trails, want assurances that green space will remain as wood lots and not be 
cleared cut, want assurances that phase 3 will be the last subdivision approved on these 
wetlands “as agreed upon in the original application a number of years ago”, and finally 
they wish that there is no disruption to sewer and water services  
Staff response: Concerns regarding Cutter Road, the Fire Lane and municipal services 
referred to Town Staff for clarification.  County, Town and SVCA are in reviewing options to 
ensure the woodlands on individuals lots is managed effectively.  
Barry Moss (no address provided) – Concerned about the development’s Environmental 
Impact Survey being out of date. Is also concerned about the possible redevelopment that 
this lies on interfering with Special Policy Area 4 for a “significant wetland”. Also concerned 
that the onsite alteration of an interceptor ditch might have led to the draining of the 
wetland and the shallowing of the water table before the plan of subdivision was approved.  
Staff Response:  See notes above regarding date of environmental study and update 
requirements.  It is also noted that the SVCA acts the County’s technical advisor on natural 
heritage and natural hazard issues.  The SVCA is a clearance agency in regard to these 
matters as well.  Concern regarding interceptor ditch referred to the applicant’s consulting 
engineer, Steve Cobean, for clarification.   
Susan Dunlop (84 N Shore Rd) - Concerned that this development might cause further issues 
with existing issues of drainage. 
Staff Response:  See comments above regarding stormwater management  
 
Jayne Holt (82 North Shore Road) - Concerned that the development might create further 
issues with drainage that exceed the capacity of the berm created to deal with this drainage 
issue. 
Steve McDougall and Carol Van Der Maaden (6 Cutter Road) – Generally supportive of the 
development, however, they have some concerns regarding stormwater and drainage 
impacts, woodland preservation and future plans for Cutter Road. 
 
Staff Response:  See comments above regarding stormwater management, SPA #4 policies 
regarding natural heritage impacts.  Cutter Road is not anticipated to be opened as a 
through road.   
 
Jordan Archer – Questions regarding a vegetive buffer along Concession 10 as well as details 
regarding the proposed sewage pumping station located adjacent to Concession 10.   
 
Staff Response: The policies in this area do not require a tree buffer along Concession 
10.  The EIS for the Woodlands subdivisions is being updated. If it recommends additional 
tree preservation along Concession 10 (to maintain the ecological functions), it will, 
likewise, be required to be maintained and we will recommend that it be included in the 
subdivision agreement for those lands.  Regarding sewage pumping, the requirement is that 
all primary residential areas should be on full municipal services, if feasible.  This 
subdivision is designated Residential and one of the conditions of approval includes the 
requirement for the developer to conduct a feasibility study for providing sewage services.  
The feasibility study will ultimately determine the need for a sewage pumping station in 
this location.    
