 
 
 
 
 
Planning Report 
To: Town of Saugeen Shores Council 
From: Coreena Smith, Senior Development Planner 
Date: June 17, 2024  
Re: Local Official Plan Amendment L-2024-007 and Zoning By-law 
Amendment Z-2024-025 (Saugeen Shores 2024 Amendment) 
 
Recommendation: 
That Council receive this Local Official Plan Amendment L-2024-007 and Zoning By-law 
Amendment Z-2024-025 (Saugeen Shores 2024 Amendment) report for information. 
Summary: 
The purpose of this application is to consider amendments to the Town of Saugeen Shores 
Official Plan and Zoning By-law addressing the following matters:  
 conformity with the implementation amendment to the Bruce County Official Plan;  
 introduction of On-Farm Diversification as per the Bruce County Official Plan and 
Provincial Policy Statement;  
 encouraging intensification and diversification of housing;  
 changes to parking provisions; and  
 other Official Plan and Zoning By-law amendments. 
The purpose of this public meeting is to present the proposal to Council and to obtain 
feedback from Council and the community. At a later date, staff will present a 
recommendation report on the Local Official Plan Amendment and Zoning By-law 
Amendment application which will also address comments arising from this meeting.  
Planning Considerations: 
Purpose of the Town’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
The Town of Saugeen Shores Official Plan is a comprehensive document that guides land use 
decisions in the municipality, specifically in the Town’s Settlement Areas. The Town’s 
Official Plan sets out the goals, objectives and policies to direct physical change in the 
community and to manage its effects on the social, economic and natural environment of 
the municipality.  The local Official Plan policies must be consistent with the Provincial 
Policy Statement and conform to the policies of the Bruce County Official Plan. The Bruce 
County Official Plan policies apply outside the Settlement Areas of the Town. 
 
 
 
 
The Town of Saugeen Shores Zoning By-law puts the policies of the County and local Official 
Plans into effect. The Zoning By-law divides the municipality into zones and specifies what 
land uses are permitted, where buildings and structures may be located, and the 
development standards for each zone (e.g., lot size, setbacks, heights, parking 
requirements).  The Town’s Zoning By-law applies both within and outside of its Settlement 
Areas. 
Proposed Amendments to the Town’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law 
Staff at the Town of Saugeen Shores identified the need to update sections of the local 
Official Plan and the Zoning By-law.  Some of the proposed amendments are intended to 
align the Town’s policies and regulations with those of the Province and the County, while 
other proposed changes are intended to support the Town’s Strategic Plan to diversify and 
grow its housing stock.  Other changes offer clarity and consistency in interpretation. 
The following section highlights some of the proposed amendments to the local Official Plan 
and the Zoning By-law.  The full list of proposed amendments and supporting rationale is 
attached to this report.    
1) Conformity with the implementation amendment to the Bruce County Official Plan  
Bruce County undertook an amendment to the County Official Plan referred to as the 
‘Implementation Amendment,’ which was approved in March 2024.  The changes 
affected all of the Implementation and Interpretation policies of the County Official 
Plan and select portions of the General Policies. 
Some of these changes have been carried forward into the proposed amendments to 
the Town’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law such as: 
 aligning policies, like community engagement and lot creation, with the County 
Official Plan. 
 referring to the County Official Plan where specific policies are not outlined in 
the Town’s Official Plan. 
 updating the list of supporting information that may be required as part of a 
complete planning application.  
 clarifying the language around legal non-conforming uses. 
 enabling planning tools like inclusionary zoning if and when those tools are 
needed or made available by the Province for use by municipalities like 
Saugeen Shores. 
2) Introduction of On-Farm Diversification as per the Bruce County Official Plan and 
Provincial Policy Statement  
Bruce County also approved an amendment to the County Official Plan in April 2022 
referred to as the ‘Agricultural Amendment’.  This amendment included updated 
policies for permitted uses in the Agricultural Areas designation, updated criteria for 
considering agriculture related commercial and industrial uses, and amendments to 
 
 
 
 
the lot creation and enlargement policies in Agricultural Areas designation.  These 
changes aligned the County Official Plan with the Provincial Policy Statement and 
related Provincial implementation guidelines.   
Those updates to the County Official Plan are proposed to be carried forward through 
proposed amendments to the Town’s Zoning By-law such as: 
 Amending or adding definitions for agricultural use, agriculturally related 
commercial/industrial use and on-farm diversified use, and outlining the 
criteria that needs to be satisfied to permit those uses on a lot. 
 Amending the permitted uses in the Agricultural and Agricultural Commercial 
zones to include agriculturally related commercial/industrial uses and on-farm 
diversified uses. 
3) Encouraging intensification and diversification of housing  
The following changes are proposed to encourage greater housing diversity and 
intensification: 
 Increasing the minimum intensification target in the Built-up Area from 10% to 
15%. 
 Requiring a minimum of 35% of all new housing to be medium or high-density 
development instead of 30% to encourage greater intensification. 
 Encouraging alignment with the Town’s design standards like the Urban Existing 
Neighbourhoods Design Guidelines. 
 Permitting additional residential units in a diverse range of housing types, 
including single-detached, semi-detached, duplex, multi-unit, townhouse and 
accessory residential buildings. 
 Allowing four (4) residential units per serviced residential lot. 
 Amending the minimum and maximum residential densities to encourage 
greater intensification. 
 Allowing low density residential uses in the Recreational designation where full 
municipal services are available. 
 Permitting medium and high-density residential uses as an integral part of a 
commercial development in the Highway Commercial designation where the 
residential uses are compatible with the commercial use. 
 Amending or adding definitions in the Zoning By-law for additional residential 
unit, apartment building, fourplex building, multi-unit building, service 
establishment, triplex building and townhouse building. 
 Adding additional building types to the list of permitted uses in the Residential 
First Density, Residential Second Density, Office Residential and Commercial 
Residential zones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Changes to parking provisions  
Town staff have also reviewed the parking requirements in the Zoning By-law and are 
recommending the following changes:  
 Reducing the minimum parking requirements for various categories of land use. 
 Identifying minimum bicycle parking requirements including the introduction of 
short and long-term bicycle parking definitions. 
 Re-introducing minimum accessible parking requirements and standards in all 
zones where the total number of required parking spaces is five (5) or more. 
 Introducing minimum requirements for electric vehicle (EV) ready parking and 
defining the associated terms. 
5) Other Official Plan and Zoning By-law amendments  
The following amendments are also proposed: 
 Identifying that the Town may prepare a feasibility study in support of eligible, 
designated projects pursuant to the Tax Increment Financing Act and may 
implement such tax increment financing measures as authorized under the Act. 
 Adding standard holding provision language that can be used for development 
proposals in areas of high archaeological potential that may require 
preparation of an archaeological assessment.   
 Allowing the archaeological holding provision to be applied automatically to a 
property when that property falls within an area of high archaeological 
potential and where the County has approved a Consent for lot creation or lot 
enlargement and/or when the Town has approved a Minor Variance. 
 Introducing automatic zoning to severed and retained lands where a surplus 
farm dwelling severance is approved by the County. These provisions, for 
example, would recognize the location of existing structures and restrict future 
dwellings on the retained farmlands. 
 Amending other provisions for clarity or consistency (e.g., consistent use of the 
term ‘building’ instead of ‘dwelling’). 
Next Steps 
County and Town staff will review all agency, public and Council comments received on the 
proposed amendments to the Town’s Official Plan and Zoning By-law and will incorporate 
changes as needed.  A recommendation report with proposed by-laws will be presented to 
Council at a future meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendices 
 List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
 Amendment Tracker 
 Agency and Public Comments 
 Public Meeting Notice  
 
List of Supporting Documents and Studies 
The following documents can be viewed in full at Planning Saugeen Shores | Bruce County. 
 Amendment Summary, prepared by Town of Saugeen Shores Staff, dated April 12, 
2024 
 Amendment Tracker, prepared by Town of Saugeen Shores Staff, dated April 12, 2024 
The Amendment Tracker has also been attached separately to this report. 
Agency Comments 
Bruce County Land Use Planning:  Bruce County Land Use Planning staff provided editorial 
and clarification comments on the proposed amendments to Town staff, along with some 
recommendations for staff’s consideration.  These changes are being reviewed by Town staff 
in preparation of the by-laws to be presented to Council at a future meeting. 
All other agency comments are attached separately to this report. 
Public Comments 
No comments were received from the public at the time of writing this report.  
 
